Friday, May 26, 2023 2023年5月26日，星期五 The world this week 这周的世界 4 Leaders 领袖 5 Letters 信件 1 By Invitation 邀请函 2 Briefing 简报 1 United States 美国 6 The Americas 美国 2 Asia 亚洲 4 China 中国 4 Middle East & Africa 中东和非洲 4 Europe 欧洲 4 Britain 英国 5 International 国际的 1 Business 生意 8 Finance & economics 金融与经济 6 Science & technology 科技 4 Culture 文化 6 Economic & financial indicators 经济及金融指标 1 Graphic detail 图像细节 1 Obituary 讣告 1 The Economist reads 《经济学人》读道 1

Sections 部分 Leaders 领袖 The world this week 这周的世界 Politics 政治 Business 生意 KAL’s cartoon 卡尔的卡通片 This week’s covers 这周的封面 The Economist :: How we saw the world 《经济学人》 : 我们如何看待这个世界 Sections 部分 Leaders 领袖

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The world this week 这周的世界 Politics 政治 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 Ron DeSantis launched his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination. The governor of Florida made his announcement in an audio conversation with Elon Musk on Twitter, though the event was marred by technical glitches for the first 20 minutes. 罗恩 · 德桑蒂斯开始了他的共和党总统候选人提名竞选活动。这位佛罗里达州州长是在与埃隆 · 马斯克(Elon Musk)在 Twitter 上的语音对话中宣布这一消息的，尽管在开始的20分钟里，这一活动因技术故障而受到了影响。 Mr DeSantis said he would revitalise America and criticised Joe Biden for being woke; as governor Mr DeSantis has made a point of clashing with the left on gay issues and identity politics. 德桑蒂斯先生说，他将重振美国，并批评乔 · 拜登被唤醒; 作为州长，德桑蒂斯先生在同性恋问题和身份政治上与左派发生冲突。 He didn’t mention Donald Trump, who holds a big lead in the Republican race at this early stage. 他没有提到唐纳德 · 特朗普，他在共和党初选中遥遥领先。 Swimming with the current 顺流而下 Seven states in the American west reached an agreement to protect the sustainability of the Colorado river , which provides water and electricity to 40m people. Described as “historic” by the White House, the deal will see Arizona, California and Nevada reduce their intake of water from the Colorado river system. 美国西部的七个州达成了一项协议，保护科罗拉多河的可持续发展。科罗拉多河为4000万人口提供水电。该协议被白宫形容为“历史性的”，它将使亚利桑那州、加利福尼亚州和内华达州减少从科罗拉多河流系统吸收的水量。 America signed a security pact with Papua New Guinea , a deal that seeks to counter the rise of Chinese influence in the Pacific. The prime minister of PNG, James Marape, tried to reassure domestic critics that America would not be allowed to launch “offensive military operations” from his country. The pact was signed at the US Pacific Islands Forum. Joe Biden had to miss the event, as he continued haggling with Republicans in Washington over the federal-debt ceiling. 美国与巴布亚新几内亚签署了一项安全协议，该协议旨在遏制中国在太平洋地区影响力的上升。巴布亚新几内亚总理詹姆斯•马拉佩(James Marape)试图安抚国内批评人士，称美国不会被允许从巴布亚新几内亚发动“进攻性军事行动”。该协议是在美国太平洋岛屿论坛上签署的。乔•拜登(Joe Biden)不得不错过这次活动，因为他在华盛顿继续与共和党人就联邦债务上限问题讨价还价。 In separate negotiations America signed agreements with Micronesia to expand economic assistance to the Pacific island nation. The State Department said the deal would “support freedom, security, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific”. 在单独的谈判中，美国与密克罗尼西亚签署协议，扩大对这个太平洋岛国的经济援助。美国国务院表示，该协议将“支持印度洋-太平洋地区的自由、安全和繁荣”。 The opposition won a general election in East Timor . According to preliminary results the National Congress for Timorese Reconstruction took 42% of the vote, increasing the chances that Xanana Gusmão, its leader and a war hero during the country’s resistance to Indonesian rule, will return as prime minister. 反对派在东帝汶赢得了大选。初步结果显示，东帝汶重建国民大会获得了42% 的选票，增加了其领导人夏纳纳•古斯芒(Xanana Gusmão)重新担任总理的可能性。古斯芒在东帝汶抵抗印度尼西亚统治期间是一位战争英雄。 The legislature makes that appointment. 立法机关做出了这个任命。 It emerged that Alejandro Encinas, a Mexican official close to President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, had his phone hacked by Pegasus, a type of spyware. Pegasus has been deployed in Mexico before, but Mr López Obrador had said he would stop its use. Yet the armed forces continue to spy on human-rights campaigners. 接近总统洛佩斯·奥布拉多尔的墨西哥官员亚历杭德罗•恩西纳斯(Alejandro Encinas)的手机被一种名为 Pegasus 的间谍软件黑客入侵。Pegasus 之前已经部署在墨西哥，但是 López Obrador 先生说他将停止使用它。然而，武装部队仍在继续监视人权活动人士。 Mr Encinas was hacked last year while investigating the armed forces’ role in the disappearance of 43 students in 2014. 恩西纳斯先生去年在调查武装部队在2014年43名学生失踪事件中所扮演的角色时被黑客攻击。 An internationally monitored ceasefire in Sudan , due to last a week, lessened the intensity of the civil war, though violence persisted here and there. The UN said that 60,000-90,000 people had fled into Chad from Sudan’s western region of Darfur, where fighting has been especially fierce. 由国际社会监督的苏丹停火协议定于上周生效，这降低了内战的激烈程度，尽管暴力事件时有发生。联合国表示，已有6万至9万人从苏丹西部达尔富尔地区逃入乍得，那里的战斗尤其激烈。 The secretary-general of the ruling African National Congress said that South Africa risks becoming a “ failed state ”, causing business leaders to lament the state of the economy more forcefully than ever. 执政党非洲人国民大会(African National Congress)的秘书长表示，南非面临成为“失败国家”的风险，这使得商界领袖比以往任何时候都更加强烈地哀叹南非的经济状况。 The trial of Ousmane Sonko, a Senegalese opposition leader accused of rape, resumed. He was absent, denouncing the trial as politically motivated. If found guilty, he would almost certainly be ruled out of running in the presidential election due next February. 塞内加尔反对派领导人奥斯曼•松科(Ousmane Sonko)被控强奸，对他的审判重新开始。他缺席了，谴责审判是出于政治动机。如果被判有罪，他几乎肯定会被排除在明年2月举行的总统选举之外。 Over a hundred green-minded members of the European Parliament and the American Congress called for the designation of Sultan al-Jaberas as head of the coming COP28 climate conference in the United Arab Emirates to be rejected. He is CEO of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company. 欧洲议会和美国国会的一百多名环保人士呼吁，不要指定苏丹阿尔贾贝拉斯为即将召开的联合国气候变化框架公约第28次缔约方大会的阿拉伯联合酋长国。他是阿布扎比国家石油公司的首席执行官。 Net migration exceeded 600,000 in Britain last year, a record figure. The number was boosted in part by arrivals from Ukraine and Hong Kong. The news is a big embarrassment for the Conservative government, which for years has been promising to 去年，英国的净移民人数超过了60万，这是一个创纪录的数字。来自乌克兰和香港的游客增加了这一数字。这个消息让保守党政府非常尴尬，多年来保守党政府一直承诺要这么做 reduce migration. 减少移民。 Sinn Féin, the main republican party in Northern Ireland , claimed victory in local elections, and now has the most council seats. Michelle O’Neill, Sinn Féin’s provincial leader, called on the Democratic Unionists to return to the Stormont Assembly, so that the power-sharing executive can start again. 北爱尔兰主要共和党新芬党(Sinn Féin)宣称在地方选举中获胜，目前在议会中的席位最多。新芬党省级领导人米歇尔•奥尼尔(Michelle O’Neill)呼吁民主联盟党人重返斯托蒙特议会(Stormont Assembly) ，以便这位权力分享高管能够重新开始工作。 Stormont has been suspended for over a year. 斯托蒙特已经停职一年多了。 The G7 held a summit in Hiroshima , which was dominated by a collective effort on how to tackle China and Russia. The forum criticised China over Taiwan, nuclear arms, human-rights violations and economic coercion. It adopted a strategy of “de-risking” the West’s trade and financial links with China. 七国集团(G7)在广岛举行了一次峰会，会议主要讨论了如何对付中国和俄罗斯的问题。论坛在台湾、核武器、侵犯人权和经济胁迫等问题上批评中国。它采取了“降低”西方与中国贸易和金融联系风险的战略。 Chinese media denounced the meeting as an “anti-China workshop”. 中国媒体谴责此次会议为“反华研讨会”。 Volodymyr Zelensky attended the G7 summit to discuss his plan to end the war in Ukraine , which includes a demand that Russia restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The G7 announced new sanctions on Russia, notably on its diamond business, and said it would support Ukraine for “as long as it takes”. America reversed its position, and will now support a plan to train Ukrainian pilots to fly F-16 fighter jets , but it has not yet decided whether to send F-16 s directly to Ukraine. 弗拉基米尔•泽伦斯基(Volodymyr Zelensky)出席了七国集团(g 7)峰会，讨论他结束乌克兰战争的计划，其中包括要求俄罗斯恢复乌克兰的领土完整。七国集团(G7)宣布了对俄罗斯的新制裁，尤其是对俄罗斯钻石业务的制裁，并表示将支持乌克兰“需要多久就多久”。美国改变了立场，现在将支持一项训练乌克兰飞行员驾驶 F-16战斗机的计划，但尚未决定是否直接向乌克兰派遣 F-16战斗机。 Russia claimed to have repelled an attack on its Belgorod region that came from across the Ukrainian border. It was the biggest incursion into Russian territory since the start of the war. Russia blamed Ukrainian “militants”. 俄罗斯声称击退了来自乌克兰边境对其别尔哥罗德地区的攻击。这是自战争开始以来对俄罗斯领土的最大一次入侵。俄罗斯指责乌克兰是“武装分子”。 Ukraine said the fighters belonged to pro-Ukrainian Russian groups that want to topple Vladimir Putin as president. 乌克兰表示，这些武装分子属于亲乌克兰的俄罗斯团体，他们希望推翻弗拉基米尔•普京(Vladimir Putin)的总统职位。 Responding to Russia’s assertion that it destroyed American-made weapons in the skirmish, the State Department said “it is up to Ukraine to decide how to conduct this war.” 针对俄罗斯声称在冲突中销毁了美国制造的武器，美国国务院表示，“如何开展这场战争取决于乌克兰。” Greek revival period 希腊复兴时期 The centre-right governing New Democracy party was the biggest winner in the Greek general election . It took 41% of the vote, double that of its closest rival, the left-wing Syriza party. But New Democracy fell just short of gaining an outright majority of seats. 中右翼执政的民主政体政党是希腊大选的最大赢家。它获得了41% 的选票，是最接近的竞争对手——左翼的 Syriza 政党的两倍。但是民主政体并没有获得绝大多数席位。 Rather than form a coalition, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the prime minister, wants to hold another round of voting, probably on June 25th. 基里亚科斯·米佐塔基斯总理希望在6月25日举行另一轮投票，而不是组建联合政府。 At least 75,000 people attended a rally in Moldova calling for the country to join the European Union. It was organised by the government, which again accused Russia of meddling in its affairs. 至少75,000人参加了摩尔多瓦的一次集会，呼吁该国加入欧盟。它是由政府组织的，政府再次指责俄罗斯干涉其事务。 Belarus’s dictator, Alexander Lukashenko, popped up on state TV to scotch rumours that he is dying. Speculation mounted that he is seriously ill after he appeared in poor health at Russia’s Victory Day parade. 白俄罗斯的独裁者，亚历山大·卢卡申科，突然出现在国家电视台上，来澄清他即将死亡的谣言。在参加俄罗斯胜利日游行时，他的健康状况不佳，因此有越来越多的猜测认为他病得很重。 Unfortunately for the people of Belarus, Mr Lukashenko is seen telling officials, “You’ll have to struggle with me for a very long time.” 不幸的是，白俄罗斯人民看到卢卡申科先生告诉官员，“你们将不得不与我斗争很长一段时间。” This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/politics 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/politics 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The world this week 这周的世界 Business 生意 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 Britain’s headline rate of annual inflation fell sharply in April, to 8.7%. But the fall was less than expected, given that last April’s rise in energy prices dropped out of the annual comparison. The core rate of inflation, stripping out energy and food, rose again to 6.8%; food prices were up by 19.1%. 英国四月份的年度通货膨胀率急剧下降到8.7% 。但这一降幅低于预期，因为去年4月的能源价格上涨没有进行年度对比。剔除能源和食品的核心通货膨胀率再次上升至6.8% ，食品价格上涨了19.1% 。 The yield on British government bonds jumped as markets bet that interest rates would increase further. 由于市场押注利率将进一步上升，英国国债收益率大幅上升。 Earlier, Andrew Bailey, the governor of the Bank of England, admitted that there are “big lessons to learn” from the failure of the bank’s economic models to predict the persistence of high inflation. 此前，英国央行行长安德鲁•贝利(Andrew Bailey)承认，从英国央行经济模型未能预测高通胀持续存在的失败中，我们可以“学到很多教训”。 An updated estimate of Germany’s GDP in the first quarter showed the economy shrinking by 0.3% over the previous three months. That means that Germany is technically in a recession, as the economy contracted by 0.5% in the fourth quarter of 2022. 对德国第一季度 GDP 的最新估计显示，德国经济在过去三个月里萎缩了0.3% 。这意味着从技术上讲，德国正处于衰退之中，2022年第四季度德国经济收缩了0.5% 。 The European Union slapped a €1.2bn ($1.3bn) fine on Meta , the owner of Facebook, for breaching rules on the transfer of personal data from the EU to America. It is the biggest penalty imposed by the EU on a company for privacy violations. The decision gives Meta six months to stop processing data in America that it holds on EU citizens. Meta described the actions as “unjustified” and said it would appeal against the fine. 欧盟(EU)对 Facebook 所有者梅塔(Meta)处以12亿欧元(合13亿美元)罚款，理由是后者违反了欧盟向美国转移个人数据的规定。这是欧盟对侵犯隐私的公司施加的最大惩罚。这个决定给了 Meta 六个月的时间来停止处理其掌握的欧盟公民在美国的数据。梅塔称这些行动是“不合理的”，并表示将对罚款提起上诉。 China banned memory chips made by Micron , an American company, from being used in the country’s infrastructure development, a tit-for-tat move in response to America’s prohibition on Chinese technology. China claimed Micron’s chips “posed significant security risks”. America has reportedly asked South Korea to dissuade Samsung and SK Hynix, which make similar chips to Micron, from filling the gap in the Chinese market that will be left by Micron’s absence. 中国禁止美国公司美光(Micron)生产的存储芯片用于中国的基础设施开发，这是针对美国禁止中国技术的一个针锋相对的举动。中国声称美光的芯片“构成重大安全风险”。据报道，美国已要求韩国劝阻三星和 SK 海力士(SK Hynix)填补美光退出后留下的中国市场缺口。三星和 SK 海力士生产与美光类似的芯片。 TikTok filed a lawsuit against Montana for its decision to ban the social-media app, the first statewide prohibition of TikTok in America. TikTok 对蒙大拿州提起诉讼，因为该州决定禁止这款社交媒体应用，这是美国第一次在全州范围内禁止 TikTok。 The Chinese firm argues that the ban is unconstitutional, and that Montana’s claim that TikTok shares data with the Chinese government is based on “unfounded speculation”. 这家中国公司认为这项禁令是违宪的，蒙大拿州声称 TikTok 与中国政府共享数据是基于“毫无根据的猜测”。 Apple announced an agreement in which Broadcom , a big American maker of semiconductors, will supply 5G components for the iPhone. Sensitive to claims that it relies on China for the assembly of its devices, Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said that all “of Apple’s products depend on technology engineered and built here” in the United States. 苹果公司宣布了一项协议，美国大型半导体制造商 Broadcom 将为 iPhone 提供5G 组件。苹果首席执行官蒂姆•库克(Tim Cook)对于苹果依赖中国组装设备的说法很敏感，他表示，“苹果的所有产品都依赖在美国设计和制造的技术”。 China overtook Japan as the world’s biggest exporter of cars in the first quarter, mostly because of its expanding production of electric vehicles. China exported more than 1m vehicles in total during the three months, compared with Japan’s 950,000. 今年第一季度，中国超过日本，成为全球最大的汽车出口国，主要原因是中国电动汽车产量不断扩大。在这三个月里，中国总共出口了逾100万辆汽车，而日本为95万辆。 Lady Luck smiles again 幸运女神又笑了 There was more evidence that Macau’s gambling industry is on the rebound from covid and a crackdown on betting by the authorities. Galaxy Entertainment, which owns hotels and casinos in the Chinese territory, said its net revenues were 72% higher in the first quarter than a year earlier. 更多证据表明，澳门博彩业正从冠状病毒疾病和当局打击赌博的行动中反弹。在香港拥有酒店和赌场的银河娱乐(Galaxy Entertainment)表示，第一季度净收入同比增长72% 。 Other resort operators have reported similar results. Macau’s casinos are now focused on catering to ordinary punters, rather than the high rollers who attracted the ire of officials. 其它度假村运营商也报告了类似的结果。澳门的赌场现在专注于迎合普通赌客，而不是那些引起官员愤怒的豪赌客。 Citigroup abandoned plans to find a buyer for Banamex , a bank chain in Mexico that it bought in 2001, and will instead spin off the business in an IPO, probably in 2025. 花旗集团(Citigroup)放弃了为2001年收购的墨西哥连锁银行 Banamex 寻找买家的计划，转而将该业务进行首次公开发行(IPO) ，可能在2025年进行。 Shell’s annual general meeting was seriously disrupted by climate-change protesters. Led by green investors, 20% of the shareholders present rejected the company’s energy-transition plan, claiming its timetable for reducing fossil-fuel production is too slow. 壳牌的年度股东大会被气候变化抗议者严重扰乱。在绿色投资者的带领下，20% 的出席股东拒绝了该公司的能源转型计划，声称其减少化石燃料生产的时间表过于缓慢。 Facing what it described as “volatile circumstances”, Target removed some products related to LGBT pride from its stores. The retailer said that in some cases customers have confronted staff over the merchandise. The pride range includes books aimed at young children with titles such as “I’m Not a Girl” and “The Pronoun Book”. 面对它所描述的“不稳定的环境”，塔吉特将一些与 LGBT 自豪感相关的产品从其商店中撤下。这家零售商表示，在某些情况下，顾客会与员工就商品发生冲突。自豪系列包括针对幼儿的书籍，如“我不是女孩”和“代词书”。 Virgin Orbit was wound down, less than two months after filing for bankruptcy protection. A sale of the rocket-launch company’s assets fetched just $36m, around 1% of the $3.7bn it was valued at when it floated on the Nasdaq stock exchange in 2021. 在申请破产保护后不到两个月，维珍轨道公司就进行了清盘。这家火箭发射公司的资产出售仅获得3600万美元，约占其2021年在纳斯达克(Nasdaq)上市时估值37亿美元的1% 。 The terminator 终结者 Netflix began its long-trailed crackdown on sharing passwords. The streaming giant sent emails to subscribers in 100 countries reminding them that only one household can watch Netflix on a single account. Netflix 开始了长期以来对共享密码的打击。这家流媒体巨头向100个国家的用户发送电子邮件，提醒他们只有一个家庭可以用一个账户观看 Netflix。 Viewers will get prompts when they tune in; those who share passwords outside the household will be booted off. The decision to get tough now has nothing to do with the company’s PR naming Arnold Schwarzenegger as a new “chief action officer”. 查看者在收看时会得到提示; 那些在家庭以外共享密码的人将被关闭。现在采取强硬态度的决定，与该公司任命新“首席行动官”的公关阿诺·施瓦辛格毫无关系。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/business 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/business 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The world this week 这周的世界 KAL’s cartoon 卡尔的卡通片 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 KAL’s cartoon appears weekly in The Economist. You can see last week’s here . 卡尔的漫画每周都会出现在《经济学人》杂志上。 Dig deeper into the subject of this week’s cartoon 深入挖掘本周漫画的主题 Ron DeSantis has little chance of beating Donald Trump ❗ 🔄 For Giorgia Meloni, supporting Ukraine has some useful benefits 对于乔治亚 · 梅洛尼来说，支持乌克兰有一些有益的好处 Truss Tour: 2023 桁架之旅: 2023 As Israel turns 75, its biggest threats now come from within 随着以色列步入75岁，它面临的最大威胁来自内部 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/kals-cartoon 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/kals-cartoon 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The Economist 经济学人 This week’s covers 这周的封面 How we saw the world 我们如何看待这个世界 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 I N MOST OF the world this week our cover shows a familiar face. The race to become the Republican nominee for the presidential election in America next year is properly under way. And Donald Trump has a huge, perhaps insurmountable, lead. 本周我们的封面在世界大部分地区展示了一张熟悉的面孔。明年美国总统大选共和党提名人的角逐正在进行之中。唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)拥有一个巨大的、或许不可逾越的领先优势。 The difficulties of co-ordinating the opposition to the former president are daunting. 协调反对这位前总统的力量的困难令人生畏。 Anyone who cares about America, about democracy, about conservatism or about decency should hope that Ron DeSantis or one of the other non-Trump Republican candidates can defy the odds and beat him. 任何关心美国、关心民主政体、关心保守主义或关心体面的人，都应该希望罗恩•德桑蒂斯(Ron DeSantis)或其他非特朗普的共和党候选人能够不顾一切击败他。 Leader : Donald Trump is very likely to be the Republican nominee 领导人: 唐纳德 · 特朗普很有可能成为共和党提名人 Briefing : Ron DeSantis has little chance of beating Donald Trump 简报: 罗恩 · 德桑蒂斯几乎没有机会击败唐纳德 · 特朗普 United States : DeSantis is a truer believer, if a lesser politician, than Trump 美国: 德桑蒂斯是一个比特朗普更忠实的信徒，如果说他是一个比特朗普更低级的政治家的话 In Britain, however, readers will see something different. A traumatised ambulance sums up the state of the country’s National Health Service. 然而，在英国，读者会看到一些不同的东西。一辆受伤的救护车概括了国家卫生服务的状况。 The recipe for saving it requires radicalism: it must be turned from what it has become—a sickness service—into what its name promises—a health service. This will mean spending more money. 拯救它的秘诀需要激进主义: 它必须从现在的ーー一个疾病服务机构ーー转变为它的名字所承诺的ーー一个医疗服务机构。这意味着要花更多的钱。 But to spend it productively requires a shift in focus: away from hospitals to the community, from treatment to prevention, from incentivising inputs to encouraging better outcomes. 但要有效地使用这些资金，就需要转移重点: 从医院转向社区，从治疗转向预防，从激励投入转向鼓励更好的结果。 Leaders : How to fix the NHS 领导者: 如何修复 NHS Britain : To survive, Britain’s NHS must stop fixating on hospital care 英国: 为了生存，英国的 NHS 必须停止专注于医院护理 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/this-weeks-covers 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/the-world-this-week/2023/05/25/this-weeks-covers 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

The world this week 这周的世界 Sections 部分 Letters 信件 Leaders 领袖 How to fix the NHS 如何修复 NHS The sick factor :: Money will help. But a radical shift in focus is more important 病态因素: 金钱会有所帮助，但更重要的是重心的彻底转移 Donald Trump is very likely to be the Republican nominee 唐纳德 · 特朗普很有可能成为共和党提名人 America’s presidential race :: So his chances of re-entering the Oval Office are uncomfortably high 美国总统竞选: 因此，他重新进入椭圆形办公室的可能性高得令人不安。 A stunning election result for Greece’s prime minister 希腊总理选举结果惊人 Carry on Kyriakos :: Kyriakos Mitsotakis deserves his unexpected triumph 基里亚科斯·米佐塔基斯应该得到意想不到的胜利 How to get more bang for the buck in Western defence budgets 如何使西方国防预算更加物有所值 End of the peace dividend :: Lessons from the war in Ukraine 结束和平红利: 乌克兰战争的教训 Activist investors are needed more than ever 现在比以往任何时候都更需要维权投资者 Seize the day (and the board) :: Low rates, passive investing and ESG have left opportunities for active shareholders 抓住今天(和董事会) : 低利率、被动投资和 ESG 为主动股东留下了机会 The world this week 这周的世界 Sections 部分 Letters 信件

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The sick factor 病态的因素 How to fix the NHS 如何修复 NHS Money will help. But a radical shift in focus is more important 资金会有所帮助，但更重要的是彻底转变关注焦点 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 B RITONS ARE prouder of their health-care system than they are of the monarchy. But when the English National Health Service ( NHS ) turns 75 in July, the mood will not be celebratory. Hospital waiting lists in England spiral beyond 7m, forcing many to wait months or even years for treatment. Almost 300,000 adults are waiting for a social-care assessment. 比起君主制，英国人更为他们的医疗保健系统感到自豪。但是当英国国民健康服务(NHS)七月份满75岁的时候，人们的心情将不会是庆祝的。英格兰的医院等待名单螺旋式上升，超过700万，迫使许多人等待数月甚至数年的治疗。近30万成年人正在等待社会关怀评估。 A record 2.5m Britons are out of work because they are sick. NHS staff are leaving the workforce in droves. On basic measures of health, Britain suffers by comparison with its rich-world peers. Its people barely live any longer than they did a decade ago, and have some of the worst survival rates for diseases such as cancer. 创纪录的250万英国人因为生病而失业。英国国民医疗服务体系(NHS)的工作人员正成群结队地离开工作岗位。在基本的健康指标方面，英国与其他发达国家相比处于劣势。与十年前相比，人们的寿命几乎没有延长，而且癌症等疾病的存活率也是最低的。 During the pandemic the public clapped for the NHS . Now they are more likely to throw up their hands in frustration. 在大流行期间，公众为 NHS 鼓掌。现在，他们更有可能沮丧地举手投降。 When something is broken, the boldest reforms can often seem the most tempting. Some want to overhaul the NHS ’s funding model, switching from a system funded by taxation to one based on social insurance, as in France or Germany. Others mull the case for much wider use of means-tested charges. 当一些事情出现问题时，最大胆的改革往往看起来最具诱惑力。一些人希望彻底改革 NHS 的融资模式，从税收融资体系转向基于社会保险的体系，就像法国或德国那样。其他人则考虑更广泛地使用经济状况调查收费。 But Britons will not easily ditch what Nigel Lawson, a former chancellor, once called their “national religion” of health care funded by taxes and free at the point of use. And the country’s recent record of revolutionary change does not inspire confidence. 但英国人不会轻易放弃前财政大臣奈杰尔•劳森(Nigel Lawson)曾称之为“国教”的医疗保健服务，这种服务的资金来源是税收，使用时免费。这个国家最近革命性变革的记录并不能激发人们的信心。 It is also unnecessary . The recipe for saving the NHS requires radicalism, but of a simpler sort: turning the NHS from what it has become—a sickness service—into what its name promises—a health service. That will mean spending more money. 这也是没有必要的。拯救 NHS 的方法需要激进主义，但要简单一些: 把 NHS 从现在的“疾病服务”变成它名字所承诺的“健康服务”。这意味着要花更多的钱。 But to spend it productively requires a shift in focus: away from hospitals to the community, from treatment to prevention, from incentivising inputs to encouraging better outcomes. 但要有效地使用这些资金，就需要转移重点: 从医院转向社区，从治疗转向预防，从激励投入转向鼓励更好的结果。 Health already absorbs the biggest single chunk of government spending. Of every pound the state spends on public services, 38p goes on the NHS . But Britain spends less on health care than countries like France and Germany as a share of GDP . It especially skimps on capital spending: no OECD country invests less on a per-person basis. And the demands on the health service are only going to go up. In the next 25 years the number of Britons aged 85 and older is set to double. The NHS is the largest single employer in Europe; the phenomenon of “cost disease” means that the pay of nurses and doctors needs to keep rising to compete with wages elsewhere in the labour market. 医疗卫生已经占据了政府开支的最大一块。政府在公共服务上的每一英镑支出中，有38便士花在了国民保健服务上。但英国的医疗支出占 GDP 的比例低于法国和德国等国。它特别节省资本支出: 没有一个经合组织国家的人均投资比它少。对医疗服务的需求只会越来越大。在未来25年内，85岁及以上的英国人数量将翻番。NHS 是欧洲最大的单一雇主; “成本疾病”现象意味着护士和医生的工资需要不断上涨，以与劳动力市场其他地方的工资竞争。 The critical question is where the money is spent. At the moment, the answer to that question can be boiled down to one word: hospitals. Spending on public health (covid-19 prevention aside) and social care has fallen in real terms over the past decade. The share of total NHS spending allocated to primary and community care was falling even before the pandemic; the share doled out to hospitals had risen to almost two-thirds. As a share of GDP spent by rich-world governments and compulsory insurance schemes, only America spends more on hospitals. 关键问题是钱花在哪里。目前，这个问题的答案可以归结为一个词: 医院。在过去十年里，公共卫生(2019冠状病毒疾病预防除外)和社会保健的实际支出有所下降。甚至在大流行之前，分配给初级和社区护理的国民保健服务总支出份额就已经下降; 分配给医院的份额已经上升到近三分之二。作为发达国家政府和强制保险计划在国内生产总值中所占的份额，只有美国在医院上的花费更多。 This makes no sense. A system focused on hospitals is one designed to treat people only after they have become really sick. That is the equivalent of buying more fire extinguishers while dismantling the smoke alarms. The majority of health and social-care spending now goes on treating long-term conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure and arthritis. 这说不通啊。一个以医院为重点的系统是一个设计用来治疗人们只有在他们真的生病之后。这相当于在拆除烟雾报警器的同时购买更多的灭火器。现在，大部分的医疗和社会保健开支都用于治疗糖尿病、高血压和关节炎等长期疾病。 Such conditions are managed best by patients themselves, in their own homes and with the support of networks of general practitioners and local specialists. The share of money going to primary care should be restored from 8% of the NHS budget to the 11% proportion it was two decades ago. Social care needs more money, too, and a proper long-term funding plan. 这种情况最好由病人自己、在他们自己的家中以及在全科医生和当地专家网络的支持下进行管理。用于初级保健的资金份额应该从国民保健服务预算的8% 恢复到20年前的11% 。社会保障也需要更多的资金，以及一个合适的长期资助计划。 The corollary of moving care out of hospitals and into communities is to focus on prevention: keeping people healthy for as long as possible. That means widening the lens on health care. 将医疗服务从医院转移到社区的必然结果是将重点放在预防上: 尽可能长时间地保持人们的健康。这意味着要扩大对医疗保健的关注。 For all the headlines it grabs, medical care contributes comparatively little to the state of the nation’s health: socio-economic factors, genetics and individual behaviour matter more. One obvious example is obesity. 尽管医疗保健占据了所有的头条新闻，但它对国家健康状况的贡献相对较小: 社会经济因素、遗传和个人行为更为重要。一个明显的例子就是肥胖。 Britain is the third-fattest country in Europe; an obese patient costs the NHS twice as much to treat as one who is not. The government needs a more muscular strategy to tackle this problem before it turns up in waiting rooms and hospital beds, for example by making effective use of promising new anti-obesity drugs. 英国是欧洲第三胖的国家，肥胖病人的治疗费用是非肥胖病人的两倍。政府需要一个更强有力的战略来解决这个问题，在它出现在候诊室和医院病床之前，例如，通过有效利用有前途的新型抗肥胖药物。 The way that the NHS measures and motivates performance also needs to change. At the moment the system is geared towards inputs. Politicians conventionally compete to make promises about the number of new hospitals or the ranks of new doctors. NHS 衡量和激励绩效的方式也需要改变。目前，该系统面向输入。政客们通常竞相承诺新医院的数量或新医生的级别。 Top-down metrics based on “activity” encourage hospitals to spend billions on unnecessary and unwanted treatments towards the end of life. 基于“活动”的自上而下的衡量标准鼓励医院在临终前花费数十亿美元进行不必要和不想要的治疗。 Funding should be relentlessly focused on health outcomes; to encourage innovation, money saved by making people healthier should be made available to regional bodies to reinvest. 资金应坚持不懈地集中在卫生成果上; 为鼓励创新，应向区域机构提供通过使人们更健康而节省下来的资金，以便进行再投资。 Will any of these changes ever actually happen? The good news is that these ideas are neither new nor even particularly controversial: just this week Sir Keir Starmer, the leader of the Labour Party, laid out in a speech the need to shift focus from acute care to chronic care. 这些变化真的会发生吗？好消息是，这些想法既不新鲜，也不特别有争议: 就在本周，工党领袖凯尔 · 斯塔默爵士(Sir Keir Starmer)在一次演讲中提出，需要将重点从急性护理转向慢性护理。 The establishment in England of “integrated care systems”, a set of 42 regional partnerships between NHS providers and local bodies, paves the way for a more decentralised approach to health provision. The covid-19 pandemic vividly demonstrated the power of data and technology to reach people quicker, from carefully targeted vaccination campaigns to online consultations. 在英格兰建立的“综合医疗系统”(NHS 提供者和地方机构之间的42个区域合作伙伴关系) ，为更加分散的卫生服务提供方式铺平了道路。2019冠状病毒疾病大流行生动地展示了数据和技术的力量，从精心选定的疫苗接种运动到在线咨询，更快地惠及人们。 Faith healing 信仰治疗 But this refocusing of effort does require a radical shift in mindset, from politicians above all. Care workers and insulin pumps are less sexy during election campaigns than heart surgeons and new hospitals. 但是，这种努力的重新聚焦确实需要彻底改变思维方式，尤其是政治家的思维方式。在竞选活动中，护理人员和胰岛素泵不像心脏外科医生和新医院那样性感。 No crisis is more urgent for a politician to fix than one involving desperately ill people waiting for ambulances to arrive—one reason why technology and capital budgets are raided to cope with each new winter crisis. The NHS can be saved. But only if the people who run it see their job as keeping Britons healthy at home rather than treating them on the wards. ■ 对于政治家来说，最迫切需要解决的危机莫过于涉及等待救护车到来的重病患者的危机，这也是为什么科技和资本预算遭到突袭以应对每一场新的冬季危机的原因之一。英国国民医疗服务体系是可以被拯救的。但只有当管理者认为他们的工作是让英国人在家里保持健康，而不是在病房里治疗他们的时候。￭ For subscribers only: to see how we design each week’s cover, sign up to our weekly Cover Story newsletter. 仅限订阅者: 想知道我们是如何设计每周封面的，请注册我们的每周封面故事通讯。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/how-to-fix-the-nhs 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/how-to-fix-the-nhs 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 America’s presidential race 美国总统竞选 Donald Trump is very likely to be the Republican nominee 唐纳德 · 特朗普很有可能成为共和党提名人 So his chances of re-entering the Oval Office are uncomfortably high 因此，他重新进入椭圆形办公室的可能性很高，这令人不安 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 A GLITCH-PLAGUED chat with Elon Musk, live on Twitter, is an unconventional way to launch a presidential campaign. But with the entry of Florida’s governor, Ron DeSantis , the race for the Republican nomination is now properly under way. The first states will not vote until January. Primaries are hard to predict, because it is expensive to conduct enough high-quality polls of primary voters in the key states. 在 Twitter 上与埃隆•马斯克(Elon Musk)进行一次遭遇故障的聊天，是启动总统竞选活动的一种非传统方式。但随着佛罗里达州州长罗恩•德桑蒂斯(Ron DeSantis)的加入，共和党总统候选人提名的角逐正在顺利进行。第一批州要到一月份才会投票。初选很难预测，因为在关键州进行足够高质量的初选投票是昂贵的。 But, with that disclaimer over, one candidate has a huge, perhaps insurmountable, lead: Donald Trump. Mr Trump thus has a real chance of becoming America’s next president. Betting markets put his odds of returning to the White House at one in three. 但是，随着免责声明的结束，一位候选人拥有了巨大的、或许是不可逾越的领先优势: 唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)。因此，特朗普先生有真正的机会成为美国的下一任总统。博彩市场认为他重返白宫的几率是三分之一。 If you decided to pay less attention to Mr Trump after he lost in 2020, to preserve your sanity, you may be wondering how this can be the case. Parties do not usually stick with losers. 如果在特朗普先生2020年落选后，你决定减少对他的关注，以保持你的理智，你可能想知道为什么会出现这种情况。政党通常不会和失败者在一起。 Mr Trump led the Republicans to defeats in the 2018 midterm and the 2020 presidential elections. After he encouraged his supporters to “stop the steal”, some of them broke into Congress, with the result that one police officer died of a stroke and four committed suicide. 特朗普先生带领共和党在2018年中期选举和2020年总统选举中失败。在他鼓励他的支持者“停止偷窃”之后，他们中的一些人闯入了国会，结果导致一名警官死于中风，四名警官自杀。 He has since been found liable for sexual assault, too. Would the Republican Party really nominate him again? 自那以后，他也被认定对性侵犯负有责任。共和党真的会再次提名他吗？ Yes, it probably would. In 2016 and in 2020 it made some sense to think of the Trump movement as a hostile takeover of the party. In 2023 it no longer does. He is the front-runner because a large proportion of Republicans really like him. 是的，很有可能。在2016年和2020年，将特朗普运动视为对共和党的敌意接管是有一定道理的。到了2023年，这种情况将不复存在。他是领先者，因为很大一部分共和党人真的喜欢他。 His supporters have had their hands on the Republican National Committee for six years now. More than half of Republicans in the House of Representatives were elected for the first time since 2016, and therefore under Mr Trump’s banner. 他的支持者已经控制共和党全国委员会六年了。自2016年以来，超过一半的共和党众议员首次当选，因此是在特朗普先生的旗帜下。 Almost all of those House and Senate Republicans who refused to make their peace with him have stood down or retired. Of the ten House members who voted to impeach Mr Trump in January 2021, only two are still there. They are outnumbered in their own caucus by more than 100 to 1. 几乎所有那些拒绝与他讲和的众议院和参议院共和党人都已经下台或退休。在2021年1月投票弹劾特朗普先生的10名众议院议员中，只有两人仍然在位。他们在自己的党团中的人数比例超过100比1。 Mr Trump’s campaign is also better organised than in either 2016 or 2020. Our analysis of the primaries shows how hard he will be to beat. He has a stunning lead: polling for The Economist by YouGov suggests Republican primary voters prefer Mr Trump to Mr DeSantis by 33 percentage points. He also has a big lead in endorsements from elected Republicans, which are usually a good predictor of what will happen. 特朗普先生的竞选也比2016年或2020年组织得更好。我们对初选的分析表明他很难被击败。他有着惊人的领先优势: YouGov 为《经济学人》所做的民意调查显示，共和党初选选民支持特朗普先生的人数比支持德桑蒂斯先生的人数多33个百分点。他在获得民选共和党人的支持方面也大大领先，这通常能很好地预测未来会发生什么。 In 2016, the last time Mr Trump contested a primary, he won the early primaries with much less support than he has now. 2016年，也就是特朗普先生最后一次参加初选的时候，他以比现在少得多的支持赢得了初选。 There are still Republican voters who would like an alternative—his 58% poll share means that close to half of primary voters must be open to choosing someone else. Yet the difficulties of co-ordinating the opposition to Mr Trump are daunting. 仍然有共和党选民希望有其他选择ーー他的58% 的民调支持率意味着，近一半的初选选民必须愿意选择其他人。然而，协调反对特朗普先生的力量的困难是令人生畏的。 People close to the Trump campaign say privately that the more candidates who enter the primary, dividing the field, the better for their candidate. 与特朗普竞选团队关系密切的人士私下表示，进入初选的候选人越多，对他们的候选人就越有利。 Some big donors are giving money to non-Trump candidates on the condition that they drop out after South Carolina, an early primary, if told to do so. 一些大型捐赠者向非特朗普候选人提供资金，条件是他们在南卡罗来纳州提前举行初选后退出竞选。 The idea is to engineer unity around a single non-Trump candidate, just as establishment Democrats united around Joe Biden in 2020 to stop Bernie Sanders, a leftist. 他们的想法是围绕一位非特朗普候选人团结起来，就像2020年建制派民主党人团结在乔•拜登(Joe Biden)周围阻止左翼人士伯尼•桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)一样。 Backroom manoeuvring by party bigwigs is less likely to work against Mr Trump, however, for the simple reason that he is the Republican establishment. 然而，党内大人物的幕后操纵不太可能对特朗普先生不利，原因很简单，他是共和党建制派。 The way the primary calendar and pending legal cases against Mr Trump intersect is nightmarish. His trial for falsifying records in New York will get under way shortly after Super Tuesday , when more than a dozen states vote. Neither this case nor any of the other investigations he faces are likely to be resolved by the time the primaries are over. 初选日程和悬而未决的针对特朗普先生的法律案件相互交织的方式简直就是噩梦。他在纽约伪造记录的审判将在超级星期二之后不久开始，届时将有十几个州投票。无论是这个案子还是他面临的其他任何调查，都不太可能在初选结束时得到解决。 It is therefore possible that the candidate of one of the two great parties could be subject to criminal charges when he is on the ballot. America has had badly behaved presidents before. It has never had one who is also the defendant in a criminal trial. 因此，两大政党之一的候选人在投票时可能受到刑事指控。美国以前也有过表现不好的总统。它从来没有一个谁也是被告在刑事审判。 You might think that, at this point, voters would abandon Mr Trump in large numbers. Maybe. But when, earlier this year, a jury found that he had sexually abused a woman 30 years ago, the verdict had no measurable effect on his poll numbers. 你可能认为，在这一点上，选民将抛弃特朗普先生在大量。也许吧。但是，今年早些时候，陪审团发现他在30年前对一名女性进行了性侵犯，这一判决对他的民意支持率没有明显的影响。 Mr Trump, it turns out, is adept at persuading Republican voters that he is the real victim. Democrats, and plenty of America’s allies, think Mr Trump is a threat to democracy (as does this newspaper). 事实证明，特朗普先生善于说服共和党选民他才是真正的受害者。民主党人和许多美国的盟友认为特朗普先生是对民主政体的威胁(本报也这么认为)。 His campaign is already turning this accusation back on the accuser: “The 2024 election”, a recent Trump campaign email announced, “will determine whether we can keep our Republic or whether America has succumbed to the dark forces of tyranny.” Those who accept that these are the stakes will probably overlook Mr Trump’s innumerable and obvious flaws. 特朗普的竞选团队已经开始将这种指责转向原告: “2024年的大选”，特朗普竞选团队最近的一封电子邮件宣布，“将决定我们是否能够保住我们的共和国，或者美国是否已经屈服于暴政的黑暗势力。”那些接受这些利害关系的人可能会忽视特朗普先生无数明显的缺点。 Imagine, then, that it is November 2024 and Mr Trump and President Biden are having a rematch—the first since Dwight Eisenhower beat Adlai Stevenson back in the 1950s. Could Mr Trump win? 那么，想象一下，现在是2024年11月，特朗普先生和拜登总统正在进行重赛ーー这是自上世纪50年代德怀特·艾森豪威尔击败阿德莱•史蒂文森(Adlai Stevenson)以来的首次重赛。Trump 先生能赢吗？ The general election will surely be close. The electoral college gives Republicans a slight edge. The most recent landslide was 40 years ago. America has since become evenly divided politically and calcified because voters seldom switch sides. 大选肯定势均力敌。选举人团给了共和党一个微弱的优势。最近的一次山体滑坡发生在40年前。自那以后，美国在政治上分歧均匀，因为选民很少改变立场而变得僵化。 Mr Biden has some under-appreciated strengths, but he is no one’s idea of formidable. Were the country to enter a recession, Mr Trump’s chances would go up. 拜登先生有一些被低估的优势，但没有人认为他令人敬畏。如果国家陷入衰退，特朗普先生的机会就会增加。 Some mooted post-primary tactics intended to stop him, such as running a third-party candidate, smack of desperation: they could easily backfire and boost him further. 一些酝酿中的初选后策略意在阻止他，比如竞选第三党候选人，带有绝望的味道: 这些策略很容易适得其反，进一步助长他的势头。 Prima Donald 首席唐纳德 All of which means that you should take seriously the possibility that America’s next president will be someone who would divide the West and delight Vladimir Putin; who accepts the results of elections only if he wins; who calls the thugs who broke into the Capitol on January 6th 2021 martyrs and wants to pardon them; who has proposed defaulting on the national debt to spite Mr Biden; and who is under multiple investigations for breaking criminal law, to add to his civil-law rap sheet for sexual assault. 所有这一切意味着，你应该认真对待下一任美国总统的可能性: 他会分裂西方，取悦弗拉基米尔 · 普京(Vladimir Putin) ; 他只有赢得选举才会接受选举结果; 他会给2021年1月6日闯入国会大厦的暴徒打电话，要求他们成为烈士，并希望赦免他们; 他曾提议拖欠国家债务，以对付拜登先生; 他还因违反刑法而接受多项调查，以便为他的性侵犯犯罪记录添砖加瓦。 Anyone who cares about America, about democracy, about conservatism or about decency should hope that Mr DeSantis or one of the other non-Trump Republican candidates can defy the odds and beat him. ■ 任何关心美国、关心民主政体、关心保守主义或关心体面的人都应该希望德桑蒂斯先生或其他非特朗普的共和党候选人能够不顾一切击败他。￭ Stay on top of American politics with Checks and Balance , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter, which examines the state of American democracy and the issues that matter to voters. You can read other articles about the elections of 2024 and follow along as we track shifts in Joe Biden’s approval rating . 通过《检查与平衡》(Checks and Balance)了解美国政治，这是我们的每周订阅时事通讯，探讨美国民主政体的状况以及对选民至关重要的问题。你可以阅读有关2024年大选的其他文章，并跟随我们跟踪乔•拜登(Joe Biden)支持率的变化。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/donald-trump-is-very-likely-to-be-the-republican-nominee 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/donald-trump-is-very-likely-to-be-the-republican-nominee 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Carry on Kyriakos 继续 Kyriakos A stunning election result for Greece’s prime minister 希腊总理选举结果惊人 Kyriakos Mitsotakis deserves his unexpected triumph 基里亚科斯·米佐塔基斯应该得到意想不到的胜利 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 T HERE IS BEATING your political opponent, there is trouncing him, and then there is what Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Greece’s prime minister, did on May 21st to Alexis Tsipras, the leader of the radical-left Syriza party. 有击败你的政治对手，有打败他，还有基里亚科斯·米佐塔基斯，希腊总理，在5月21日对激进左翼联盟党领导人亚历克西斯 · 齐普拉斯所做的事情。 Syriza ran the country from 2015 to 2019, a time when Greece came close to defaulting on its debts, crashing out of the euro and threatening the stability of the entire euro zone. Mr Mitsotakis then took over. 激进左翼联盟在2015年至2019年期间领导着希腊，当时希腊几乎无力偿还债务，退出欧元区，并威胁到整个欧元区的稳定。然后 Mitsotakis 先生接手了。 Now Greek voters have decided, by a whopping margin, that they prefer stability and technocratic competence to drama. 现在，希腊选民以惊人的优势决定，他们更喜欢稳定和技术官僚的能力，而不是戏剧。 Mr Mitsotakis picked up 41% of the vote to Syriza’s 20%, a stunning result, especially given that pollsters had predicted only a six- or seven-point gap. Mr Tsipras’s future, and that of his party, are now in doubt. Mitsotakis 先生获得了41% 的选票，激进左翼联盟获得了20% 的选票，这是一个令人震惊的结果，特别是考虑到民意测验专家预测只有6-7个百分点的差距。齐普拉斯先生的未来，以及他的政党的未来，现在都充满了疑问。 Yanis Varoufakis, the shaven-headed, leather-jacketed finance minister who propelled Syriza down the path of confrontation with Brussels but then quit and formed his own splinter party, is out of parliament. Mr Mitsotakis fell a few seats short of an overall majority. 这位雅尼斯·瓦鲁法克斯光头、身穿皮夹克的财政部长将激进左翼联盟推上了与布鲁塞尔对抗的道路，但随后辞职，组建了自己的分裂党派。Mitsotakis 先生的席位距离总体多数还有一些差距。 But he says he has no interest in forming a coalition; and no one else can. So a second election will be held, probably on June 25th; an interim prime minister will hold the reins until then. 但他表示，他对组建联合政府没有兴趣，其他人也没有兴趣。因此，第二次选举将于6月25日举行，届时将由一位临时总理掌权。 Mr Mitsotakis is sure to be back, because the next election will be held under a new electoral system that will reward the largest party, presumably his right-of-centre New Democracy, with up to 50 bonus seats, out of a parliamentary total of 300. 米佐塔基斯先生肯定会回来，因为下一次选举将在新的选举制度下进行，届时在议会300个席位中，将奖励最大的政党(可能是他的中间偏右的民主政体)最多50个额外席位。 Mr Mitsotakis has earned it. Over the past four years he has governed, for the most part, with energy and skill. Mitsotakis 先生应得的。在过去的四年里，他大部分时间都是以精力和技巧来统治国家的。 The economy has bounced back better than most from the disasters of covid-19 and the energy-price shock; its growth rate last year was around twice the euro-zone average, and is forecast to exceed it comfortably this year too. 经济从2019冠状病毒疾病和能源价格冲击的灾难中恢复得比大多数国家都要好，去年的经济增长率大约是欧元区平均水平的两倍，预计今年也将轻松超过欧元区。 Greece’s sovereign debt now trades at investment-grade interest rates; the spread between what it must pay on its ten-year bond and what Germany pays is only 1.4 percentage points. During the crisis of 2015, it hit a terrifying 18.7 percentage points. 希腊的主权债务目前的交易利率为投资级别; 希腊必须支付的10年期债券利差与德国支付的利差仅为1.4个百分点。在2015年的危机期间，这一数字达到了可怕的18.7个百分点。 The unemployment rate is still too high, at nearly 11%, but annual inflation is back down at only 3%. Greece, in short, has become a normal country, not a worry. 失业率仍然很高，接近11% ，但年通胀率已经回落到3% 。简而言之，希腊已经成为一个正常的国家，而不是一个令人担忧的国家。 Away from the economy, Mr Mitsotakis has done a reasonable job of managing tensions with Turkey, helped by his swift dispatch of aid to the earthquake-devastated Turkish south-east in February. 在经济之外，Mitsotakis 先生在处理与土耳其的紧张关系方面做得相当不错，这得益于他在二月份迅速向遭受地震破坏的土耳其东南部地区提供援助。 That is not to say that things are perfect. Mr Mitsotakis has three big blots on his record and, assuming he gets his second term, he will need to deal with them. 这并不是说一切都很完美。Mitsotakis 先生的履历上有三大污点，如果他连任，他将需要处理这些污点。 The first is a nasty scandal involving the phone-tapping, actual and attempted, of dozens of politicians, journalists and businesspeople by the security services. 第一个丑闻涉及安全部门对数十名政客、记者和商人的电话窃听，不管是实际的还是未遂的。 Mr Mitsotakis’s government has yet to come clean about exactly what happened; until a lot more is disclosed, trust in his administration will remain badly dented. 米佐塔基斯先生的政府还没有清楚到底发生了什么; 除非更多的信息被披露，否则对他的政府的信任将继续受到严重的打击。 The second is persistent reports of Greek border guards beating up and robbing migrants trying to enter from Turkey: something that may not much bother Mr Mitsotakis’s more nationalist-minded supporters, but ought to bother him. 第二是持续不断的关于希腊边防军殴打和抢劫试图从土耳其进入的移民的报道: 这些事情可能不会太困扰 Mitsotakis 先生更具民族主义思想的支持者，但应该困扰他。 And finally, far more needs to be done to reform Greece’s sclerotic and sometimes corrupt public services. The shortcomings of the state were demonstrated in February by a train crash which took 57 lives and revealed a litany of duff equipment and shoddy working practices. 最后，在改革希腊僵化、有时甚至腐败的公共服务方面，还有更多的工作要做。今年2月，一起造成57人死亡的火车相撞事故暴露了这个州的不足之处，事故中出现了一连串的设备和劣质工作方式。 It was the result of decades of mismanagement, but it sent Mr Mitsotakis’s polls reeling (they recovered in time for the election, which he put back by more than a month). 这是几十年来管理不善的结果，但是它使 Mitsotakis 先生的民意调查摇摇欲坠(他们及时地在选举前恢复了，他把选举推迟了一个多月)。 The mission of modernising Greek government has a long way to go—and Mr Mitsotakis will have his work cut out in a second term. But he clearly deserves one. ■ 希腊政府的现代化任务还有很长的路要走ーー米索塔基斯先生在第二个任期内将面临艰巨的任务。但显然他值得拥有一个。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/a-stunning-election-result-for-greeces-prime-minister 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/a-stunning-election-result-for-greeces-prime-minister 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 End of the peace dividend 和平红利的终结 How to get more bang for the buck in Western defence budgets 如何使西方国防预算更加物有所值 Lessons from the war in Ukraine 乌克兰战争的教训 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 T HE WORLD is tooling up. The peace dividend it has enjoyed since the end of the cold war—releasing wads of cash from defence to spend on other things—is ending. Now comes the new “war tax”. Our simulations suggest global defence spending may rise by $200bn-$700bn a year, or 9-32%. Blame fraught geopolitics—especially Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and China’s sabre-rattling at Taiwan. 这个世界正在改变。美国自冷战结束以来享受的和平红利——从国防中释放大量现金用于其它事情——即将结束。现在又出现了新的“战争税”。我们的模拟显示，全球国防开支每年可能增加2000亿至7000亿美元，增幅为9% 至32% 。这要归咎于充满忧虑的地缘政治，尤其是俄罗斯入侵乌克兰和中国对台湾的武力恫吓。 America and China are locked in a race for military ascendancy in Asia. European countries are scrambling to meet NATO ’s target of spending 2% of GDP on defence. Poland is aiming for 4% and wants to double its armed forces. Japan’s defence budget will rise by at least two-thirds by 2027, which may make it the world’s third-largest spender. Australia is developing pricey nuclear-powered submarines with America and Britain. 美国和中国正在亚洲争夺军事优势。欧洲国家正在争先恐后地实现北约国防开支占国内生产总值2% 的目标。波兰的目标是4% ，并希望将其武装力量增加一倍。到2027年，日本的国防预算将至少增长三分之二，这可能使日本成为世界第三大国。澳大利亚正在与美国和英国一起开发昂贵的核动力潜艇。 Yet for Western governments, finding money for arms will not be easy. They must pay interest on debts and cope with fiscal pressures that did not exist in the 1980s, such as the need to care for ageing populations and curb climate change. 然而，对于西方国家政府来说，筹措资金购买武器并不容易。它们必须支付债务利息，并应对上世纪80年代不存在的财政压力，比如照顾老龄化人口和遏制气候变化的必要性。 Furthermore, as in the cold-war era, there is a risk that cash is blown on good-but-exorbitant equipment, thanks to red tape and cronyism. How to get the best value from defence spending in the 2020s? 此外，与冷战时期一样，由于繁文缛节和任人唯亲，现金有可能被浪费在质量好但价格过高的设备上。如何在21世纪20年代从国防开支中获得最佳价值？ The war in Ukraine offers some pointers. The first priority for Western governments is to restock depleted arsenals and boost the factories that make shells and missiles. War eats up vast amounts of ammunition. 乌克兰战争提供了一些启示。西方政府的首要任务是补充已经耗尽的军火库，增加制造炮弹和导弹的工厂数量。战争消耗了大量的弹药。 Ukraine has been firing roughly as many 155mm artillery shells in a month as America can produce in a year. In a war with China over Taiwan, America could run out of vital anti-ship missiles within days. 乌克兰一个月发射的155毫米炮弹数量大约是美国一年的产量。在与中国的台湾战争中，美国可能会在几天内耗尽关键的反舰导弹。 Increasing output requires certainty for industry, in the form of multi-year contracts, and much work to find and clear production bottlenecks. 增加产量需要多年合同形式的行业确定性，需要大量工作来发现和清除生产瓶颈。 Next, governments should shake up procurement processes and disrupt the cosy structure of the defence industry. Western weapons have shown their value in Ukraine, and the war ought to be a “battle lab” for new ideas. Yet procurement is still woefully slow and costly. 其次，各国政府应改革采购流程，打破国防工业的舒适结构。西方的武器已经在乌克兰显示了它们的价值，这场战争应该成为新思想的“战斗实验室”。然而，采购仍然非常缓慢，而且成本高昂。 New entrants, notably dynamic tech firms, could end the oligopoly of the big contractors. 新进入者，尤其是充满活力的科技公司，可能终结大型承包商的寡头垄断。 SpaceX, a satellite firm, has broken the hold of big, stodgy rivals and slashed the cost of putting objects into orbit. Its Starlink constellation of communication satellites has proved invaluable to Ukrainian forces. 太空探索技术公司(SpaceX) ，一家卫星公司，已经打破了大型、乏味的竞争对手的控制，并大幅削减了将物体送入轨道的成本。它的星链通信卫星星座对乌克兰军队来说是无价之宝。 More Silicon Valley firms are helping with the fusion and analysis of data to create a “kill web”: a network of scattered “sensors” and “shooters” that is more powerful than any single weapon. 更多的硅谷公司正在帮助融合和分析数据，以创建一个“杀伤网络”: 一个由分散的“传感器”和“射手”组成的网络，比任何单一武器都更强大。 Governments should welcome the flow of venture capital into experimental defence startups, and accept that some failures are inevitable. 政府应该欢迎风险资本流入试验性国防初创企业，并承认一些失败是不可避免的。 Finally, Western countries need to create more of a single market for defence that boosts economies of scale and competition. Common standards, which NATO can help set, are one part of this. With its tutti-frutti arsenal of donated weapons, Ukraine knows all about the incompatibilities of Western kit: British tanks have rifled guns, so they cannot fire ammunition made for smooth-bored German and American ones. 最后，西方国家需要建立更多的单一国防市场，以促进规模经济和竞争。北约可以帮助制定的共同标准就是其中的一部分。乌克兰拥有大量捐赠的武器，它知道所有西方装备的不兼容性: 英国坦克有膛线枪，所以他们不能发射为平坦的德国和美国制造的弹药。 American tanks run on petrol; European ones on diesel. Given the growing importance of data in weaponry, open-architecture software that allows kit to “plug and play” should be helpful. 美国坦克靠汽油驱动，欧洲坦克靠柴油驱动。鉴于数据在武器装备中的重要性与日俱增，允许装备“即插即用”的开放式体系结构软件应该会有所帮助。 Creating an integrated market also means resisting protectionism. Europe got into a needless twist—and wasted time—over French attempts to exclude non-European firms from the EU ’s scheme to deliver 1m artillery shells to Ukraine in a year. Even mighty America could benefit from more co-operation. It has one supplier of rocket motors for many missiles; buying from trusted allies would make its supply chains more resilient. 创建一体化市场还意味着抵制保护主义。法国试图将非欧洲公司排除在欧盟一年内向乌克兰运送100万枚炮弹的计划之外，欧洲因此陷入了不必要的麻烦之中，并且浪费了时间。即使是强大的美国也可以从更多的合作中受益。它只有一个火箭发动机供应商，可以为许多导弹提供发动机; 从值得信赖的盟友那里购买可以增强其供应链的弹性。 In an unruly world, liberal democracies must figure out how to bolster their security despite other pressing demands on the public purse. The best way is to embrace innovation, and ruthlessly pursue efficiency and scale. ■ 在一个不受控制的世界里，自由民主国家必须想出办法来加强自己的安全，尽管其他国家对公共财政提出了紧迫的要求。最好的办法就是拥抱创新，无情地追求效率和规模。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/how-to-get-more-bang-for-the-buck-in-western-defence-budgets 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/25/how-to-get-more-bang-for-the-buck-in-western-defence-budgets 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Seize the day (and the board) 抓住今天(和董事会) Activist investors are needed more than ever 现在比以往任何时候都更需要维权投资者 Low rates, passive investing and ESG have left opportunities for active shareholders 低利率、被动投资和环境、社会和治理为主动股东留下了机会 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 L ITTLE SCARES the C -suite like shareholder activism. Bosses stay awake worrying about a call, a letter or a 100-page presentation in which a hedge fund outlines the depths of their ineptitude. At the start of the year executives were especially on edge. 小小的恐吓就像股东积极主义一样吓到了高层。老板们总是担心一个电话、一封信或者一份100页的报告，在这些报告中，对冲基金描述了他们的无能到了何种程度。今年年初，高管们尤其紧张。 During this year’s annual “proxy season”—a succession of shareholder meetings—they have mostly avoided votes on dissident nominees to their boards. 在今年一年一度的“代理季”(股东会议接连举行)期间，他们基本上避免对董事会异见人士的提名进行投票。 Nevertheless in recent months some of the world’s largest firms—including Alphabet, Bayer, Disney and Salesforce—have had to tussle with activists, who are increasingly focused on the biggest companies. 然而，最近几个月，一些全球最大的公司(包括 Alphabet、拜耳(Bayer)、迪士尼(Disney)和 Salesforce)不得不与维权人士发生冲突，后者越来越关注那些最大的公司。 On May 25th, as we published this article, the battle between Carl Icahn, a prominent activist, and Illumina, a genomics giant, was set to come to a head . 5月25日，当我们发表这篇文章时，著名活动家卡尔 · 伊坎(Carl Icahn)和基因组学巨头 Illumina 之间的斗争即将进入白热化阶段。 Activist hedge funds are often seen as villains who are nasty, brutish and focused on the short term. Sometimes the shoe fits. But more often activists are playing a role that is essential for shareholder capitalism. 维权对冲基金往往被视为恶棍，他们肮脏、野蛮，专注于短期目标。有时候就是这样。但更多时候，维权人士扮演的角色对股东资本主义至关重要。 For several reasons, their campaigns are increasingly important. 出于几个原因，他们的竞选活动变得越来越重要。 One is the rise of passive investing, which attempts to replicate the returns of an index rather than surpass them. Only one in three dollars invested by institutions in America’s thousand largest public companies is actively allocated, according to Man Group, an investment firm. 一个是被动投资的兴起，它试图复制一个指数的回报率，而不是超越它们。投资公司曼氏集团(Man Group)的数据显示，在美国最大的一千家上市公司中，只有三分之一的机构投资获得了积极配置。 The biggest passive asset-managers, such as BlackRock, charge low fees and run lean investment-stewardship teams which are not designed to spot empire-building bosses or lazy boards. The result is an increasingly idle corporate electorate. 贝莱德(BlackRock)等最大的被动型资产管理公司收费低廉，运营着精干的投资管理团队，这些团队的目的不是为了发现建立帝国的老板或懒惰的董事会。其结果是企业选民越来越无所事事。 Efforts to enfranchise the ultimate owners of funds are unlikely to solve the problem. They typically want to earn returns but leave the decision-making to somebody else. 赋予基金最终所有者权利的努力不太可能解决这个问题。他们通常希望获得回报，但把决策权留给了其他人。 There are other channels by which bosses’ feet might be held to the fire. Since the 1980s leveraged buy-outs by private-equity firms have been a persistent threat to underperforming executives. The best way to deter a hostile takeover is to raise your company’s share price. 还有其他渠道可以让老板们的脚受到严厉的惩罚。自上世纪80年代以来，私人股本公司的杠杆收购一直是业绩不佳的高管面临的一个持续威胁。阻止敌意收购的最好办法是提高你公司的股价。 Today, however, the buy-out industry is roiling from the effects of higher interest rates, and is unlikely to recover fully for some time. 然而，如今收购行业正受到利率上升的影响，在一段时间内不太可能完全复苏。 While the routes by which managers are held to account have shrunk, the need to boost profits by applying discipline has grown. When interest rates were low, large technology firms hired aggressively and expanded into peripheral lines of business. 尽管追究管理者责任的途径已经缩小，但通过实施纪律来提高利润的需求却在增长。当利率较低时，大型科技公司大举招聘，并向外围业务扩张。 Now profits are more important than growth. Over the past decade the demand for managers to respond to environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) concerns has also grown. Some shareholders campaign for ESG —as is their right—but the danger of firms losing focus and wasting money as they are drawn into politics has increased. 现在利润比增长更重要。在过去的十年中，对管理者回应环境、社会和治理(ESG)问题的需求也在增长。一些股东支持 ESG (这是他们的权利) ，但随着企业被卷入政治，它们失去焦点和浪费资金的风险已经增加。 In such an environment the presence of activists is a welcome reminder that it is owners, not managers, in whose interest firms should be run. 在这样的环境下，维权人士的出现是一个值得欢迎的提醒，他们提醒我们，公司应该为所有者而非管理者的利益而运营。 And because dealmaking is down, activists will be more likely to improve a firm’s operations than force it to sell itself in search of a quick buck. That should assuage the fears of those who see activists as corporate cowboys rather than drivers of efficiency. 而且，由于交易量下降，维权人士更有可能改善公司的运营，而不是迫使其出售自己，以寻求快速赚钱。这应该能够缓解那些将活动人士视为企业牛仔、而非效率推动者的人的担忧。 Get out the vote 投票吧 Fortunately, the job of activists is getting easier. New rules that came into force in America last September should make it simpler for them to obtain board seats by letting shareholders vote for candidates individually, rather than as a bloc. 幸运的是，积极分子的工作正变得越来越容易。去年9月在美国生效的新规定应该会让他们更容易获得董事会席位，让股东单独投票选举候选人，而不是作为一个集团。 The wave of nail-biting shareholder votes some expected to follow immediately has not yet materialised. But more battles between activists and complacent managers would be no bad thing. ■ 一些人预计将立即跟进的股东投票浪潮，迄今尚未成为现实。不过，激进分子与自满的管理者之间爆发更多争斗并非坏事。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/24/activist-investors-are-needed-more-than-ever 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/leaders/2023/05/24/activist-investors-are-needed-more-than-ever 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Leaders 领袖 Sections 部分 By Invitation 邀请函 Letters 信件 Letters to the editor 给编辑的信 On international aid, inflation, Britain’s royal family, walking, bacteria, Liz Truss :: A selection of correspondence 关于国际援助，通货膨胀，英国皇室，步行，细菌，Liz Truss: : 一些信件的选择 Leaders 领袖 Sections 部分 By Invitation 邀请函

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 On international aid, inflation, Britain’s royal family, walking, bacteria, Liz Truss 关于国际援助，通货膨胀，英国皇室，步行，细菌，利兹特拉斯 Letters to the editor 给编辑的信 A selection of correspondence 精选的信件 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 Letters are welcome via e-mail to letters@economist.com 欢迎通过电子邮件来信@economist.com Promoting local aid 促进当地援助 As you noted, risk aversion and bureaucracy get in the way of the American government effectively supporting locally led development and emergency relief (“ The effort to transform the aid business ”, May 6th). The same is true for most other government donors, UN agencies and international NGO s. After the earthquake in Syria and Turkey, just as on the front lines in Ukraine and in remote parts of Myanmar, local volunteer networks stayed and delivered life-saving help, whereas international agencies withdrew or never ventured. 正如你所指出的，风险规避和官僚作风阻碍了美国政府有效地支持地方主导的发展和紧急救援(“转变援助业务的努力”，5月6日)。大多数其他政府捐助者、联合国机构和国际非政府组织也是如此。在叙利亚和土耳其发生地震后，正如在乌克兰前线和缅甸偏远地区一样，当地志愿人员网络留了下来，提供救生帮助，而国际机构则撤出或从未冒险。 Sadly, the standard operating model has often been to sideline local agencies rather than reinforce them, or to sub-contract them into projects that do not adequately cover their overheads, or to poach their staff. Some aid agencies are taking a more responsible approach. 遗憾的是，标准的运作模式往往是将地方机构排除在外，而不是加强它们，或者将它们分包给不足以支付其间接费用的项目，或者挖走它们的工作人员。一些援助机构正在采取更负责任的做法。 The American government’s aid-reform agenda is already challenging other donors and big aid agencies to move from lip service on localisation towards more practical action. 美国政府的援助改革议程已经在挑战其他捐助者和大型援助机构，使其从口头上的本地化转向更实际的行动。 Donors hold the purse-strings. For meaningful change, we need to see them shift funding to local leadership. Over the past decade the aid industry scaled up cash assistance as a more effective and dignified way to help people in times of crisis than food aid. 捐赠者掌握着财政大权。要做出有意义的改变，我们需要看到他们将资金转移到地方领导层。在过去十年中，援助行业扩大了现金援助的规模，认为这是一种比粮食援助更有效、更有尊严的在危机时期帮助人民的方式。 The mantra was: “Why not cash?” Likewise, donors should be asking themselves and the partners they fund in every context: “Why not local?” 他们的口头禅是: “为什么不用现金?”同样，捐赠者应该在每个环境下都问自己和他们资助的合作伙伴: “为什么不是本地的?” HOWARD MOLLETT Head of humanitarian policy 人道主义政策主管 CAFOD London 伦敦 Your proposal to shift towards localisation in aid is commendable but naive. The staff of governments in host countries like Cambodia, Haiti, Jordan and Nigeria receive risible salaries that must be supplemented in order for them to gain a living wage. 你转向援助本地化的建议值得赞扬，但很天真。柬埔寨、海地、约旦和尼日利亚等东道国政府的工作人员得到的工资可笑至极，必须加以补充，才能获得维持生计的工资。 If large grants were disbursed to local agencies we could expect these government staff to seek “rents” from the agencies, and that the agencies, which depend on the government staff for licences to operate, will not be able to say no. 如果向地方机构发放大笔补助金，我们可以预期，这些政府工作人员会向这些机构索要“租金”，而这些依赖政府工作人员获得经营牌照的机构将无法拒绝。 In my 15 years working with USAID I have seen this scenario repeated countless times. Local agencies operate at the pleasure of the host government. International NGO s are somewhat insulated from similar pressures. 在我为美国国际开发署(USAID)工作的15年中，我看到这种情况重复了无数次。地方机构的运作取决于东道国政府。国际非政府组织在某种程度上不受类似压力的影响。 THOMAS D’AGNES THOMAS D’Agnes Kailua, Hawaii 凯卢阿 The factors behind inflation 通货膨胀背后的因素 “ Capital v labour ” (May 6th) set up a straw-man argument about capital’s responsibility for the surge in inflation. Corporate mark-ups have been rising in America since the early 1980s, but are not necessarily reflected in capital’s share of GDP. A growing body of economics research shows that capital share need not rise when labour share falls, and that the share of “factorless income” has been growing even as both labour and capital share have fallen. “资本 VS 劳动力”(5月6日)就资本对通货膨胀的责任提出了一个稻草人论点。自上世纪80年代初以来，美国企业的加价一直在上升，但并不一定反映在资本占 GDP 的比重上。越来越多的经济学研究表明，当劳动力份额下降时，资本份额不一定会上升，而“无因素收入”的份额一直在增长，尽管劳动力和资本份额都有所下降。 Much of this is explained by the growth of intangible capital, such as algorithms, but also by increased fixed costs, which for many firms includes the compensation to managers accounted for as part of sales and general administration costs. 这在很大程度上是由于算法等无形资本的增长，但也由于固定成本的增加，对许多公司来说，固定成本包括作为销售和一般管理成本一部分的经理薪酬。 The data show that over the past four decades, after-tax corporate profits in America have generally risen as a share of gross national income, falling in recessionary years, then rising again as the economy recovers. 数据显示，在过去40年里，美国税后企业利润占国民总收入的比例普遍上升，在衰退年份下降，然后随着经济复苏再次上升。 In the first year of the pandemic, their share shot up from 7.2% of national income to 8.4%. 在大流行的第一年，他们的份额从国民收入的7.2% 飙升到8.4% 。 Median wages have risen since mid-2014 and spiked briefly during the pandemic, but they have since settled back to their pre-pandemic levels. 工资中位数自2014年年中以来有所上升，并在大流行期间短暂飙升，但此后已回落至大流行前的水平。 Although we cannot ascribe the recent inflation to either higher capital or labour shares, these are neither necessarily inversely linked, nor the main reason for soaring income gains at the top. 尽管我们不能将近期的通胀归因于资本或劳动力份额的上升，但这两者既不一定是负相关的，也不是最高收入人群收入飙升的主要原因。 But there is no question that the share of corporate profits in national income has been increasing. 但毫无疑问，企业利润在国民收入中所占的份额一直在增加。 THOMAS REMINGTON Visiting professor of government 政府客座教授 Harvard University 哈佛大学 Cambridge, Massachusetts 马萨诸塞州，剑桥 Royal charities 皇家慈善机构 “ Crowning story ” (May 6th) could have mentioned some of the charities founded by Britain’s royal family. The Prince’s Trust has helped over 1m young people into employment. The Queen’s Green Canopy has planted more than 1m trees. “皇冠故事”(5月6日)可以提到一些由英国皇室成立的慈善机构。王子信托基金已经帮助100多万年轻人就业。女王的绿色天篷已经种植了超过100万棵树。 The Duke of Edinburgh’s Award sees over 300,000 young people volunteer each year, and as was the case with this reader, can inspire a lifelong commitment to volunteering. There is also the Earthshot Prize, the Royal Foundation and Heads Together. 爱丁堡公爵每年有超过30万名年轻人参加志愿者活动，正如这位读者的情况一样，这可以激励人们终生致力于志愿工作。此外，还有“地球拍摄奖”、“皇家基金会”和“团结首脑奖”。 The royal family fills an unfashionable gap engaging with communities that politicians can’t be bothered with and celebrities can’t bear to be seen with. Royal factory visits are not to be sniffed at. 皇室家族填补了一个不流行的空白，与政客们不愿意打扰的社区和名人们不愿意被看到的社区打交道。参观皇家工厂不容小觑。 If the media gave more focus to these endeavours it would change many more lives for the better. 如果媒体对这些努力给予更多的关注，将会改善更多的生活。 GAYATHRI FERNANDO GAYATHRI 费尔南多 London 伦敦 Taking the high road 走正道 Walking is a British thing, says Lexington (May 6th). One name missing from his list of famous walkers is Ben Jonson, an English poet and playwright and friend of William Shakespeare. Jonson set out on his 400-mile “foot voyage” from London to Edinburgh in July 1618. Despite the fact that he was 46 at the time and seriously overweight, he had a marvellous time en route being treated like the celebrity he was, and feted and housed by William Drummond of Hawthornden, his wealthy Scottish fan and fellow poet. 列克星敦(5月6日)说，步行是英国的事情。英国诗人、剧作家、威廉·莎士比亚的朋友本•琼森(Ben Jonson)没有出现在他的著名步行者名单上。1618年7月，琼森开始了他400英里的“徒步旅行”，从伦敦到爱丁堡。尽管当时他46岁，而且严重超重，但他在路上度过了一段美妙的时光，受到了他作为名人的待遇，受到了他富有的苏格兰粉丝、同为诗人的德拉蒙德的款待和款待。 JAMES HUNTER Toronto 多伦多 Divine organisms 神圣的有机体 Your review of Jonathan Kennedy’s book on bacteria says that he puts germs at the centre of human history (“ Bugs in the system ”, April 15th). Mark Twain went a step further. 你对乔纳森 · 肯尼迪(Jonathan Kennedy)关于细菌的书的评论说，他把细菌放在了人类历史的中心(《系统中的虫子》 ，4月15日)。马克吐温更进一步。 In “Letters from the Earth”, Twain claimed that microbes are God’s favourite creatures: “The microbes were by far the most important part of the Ark’s cargo and the part the Creator was most anxious about and most infatuated with…The large intestine was in effect their heaven.” 在《来自地球的信》一书中，吐温声称微生物是上帝最喜欢的生物: “到目前为止，微生物是方舟货物中最重要的部分，也是造物主最担心和最迷恋的部分... ... 大肠实际上是他们的天堂。” Elsewhere, Twain solved the age-old conundrum of theodicy, or why a benevolent God allows evil to exist. He said we falsely assume God is like us and that we are his favourites. Twain concluded that, based on which species thrive the best, God clearly must be a microbe. 在其他地方，吐温解决了古老的神学难题，也就是为什么仁慈的上帝允许邪恶存在。他说我们错误地认为上帝和我们一样，我们是他的宠儿。吐温的结论是，基于哪个物种繁衍得最好，上帝显然必须是一个微生物。 RICHARD WAUGAMAN Clinical professor of psychiatry 精神病学临床教授 Georgetown University 乔治城大学 Washington, DC 华盛顿特区 Bartleby wrote about employers looking for soft skills when they hire someone (May 13th). I was always keen on employing the very best people. The most effective way to hire the right match was for me to sweep the parking lot upon the candidate’s arrival, pushing a broom and looking busy. Bartleby 写到雇主在招聘员工时寻找软技能(5月13日)。我总是热衷于雇佣最优秀的人才。对我来说，雇佣合适的人选最有效的方法就是在候选人到达时清扫停车场，推着扫帚，看起来很忙。 I would say: “Hello”, wait and observe. It was much more effective than any of the usual techniques. 我会说: “你好”，等待和观察。这是比任何通常的技术更有效。 ANDRÉ MONCHEUR DE RIEUDOTTE Boise, Idaho 博伊西 Her salad days are over 她的黄金时代已经结束了 Bagehot is right (May 20th). Britain really “would rather forget about Liz Truss”. She just won’t lettuce. 白芝浩是对的(5月20日)。英国真的“宁愿忘记丽兹特拉斯”。她只是不会生菜。 JONATHAN ASPIN St Christophe en Brionnais, France 圣克里斯托弗在布里奥奈，法国 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/letters/2023/05/25/letters-to-the-editor 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/letters/2023/05/25/letters-to-the-editor 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Letters 信件 Sections 部分 Briefing 简报 By Invitation 邀请函 Don’t be fooled by Meta’s fine for data breaches, says Johnny Ryan 不要被梅塔的数据泄露罚款愚弄，约翰尼瑞恩说 Data protection :: Europe’s GDPR, once seen as a model, is an enforcement flop 数据保护: : 欧洲的 GDPR，曾经被视为一种模式，但是执行失败了 A forensic-accounting expert on how to treat the fraud epidemic 法务会计专家，专门研究如何处理欺诈问题 Financial crime :: Encourage more insiders to spill the beans, says Kelly Richmond Pope 金融犯罪: 凯利 · 里士满 · 波普说，鼓励更多的内部人士泄露秘密 Letters 信件 Sections 部分 Briefing 简报

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Data protection 数据保护 Don’t be fooled by Meta’s fine for data breaches, says Johnny Ryan 不要被梅塔的数据泄露罚款愚弄，约翰尼瑞恩说 Europe’s GDPR, once seen as a model, is an enforcement flop 欧洲的 GDPR 一度被视为一种模式，但在执行方面却一败涂地 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 T HE EUROPEAN UNION’S best-known law is about to turn five. On May 25th 2018 the EU introduced the General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ). Spurred by the revelations of Edward Snowden, an American whistleblower, the bloc’s lawmakers gave Europe’s rights-based approach to data sharp new teeth. 欧盟最著名的法律即将迎来五岁生日。2018年5月25日，欧盟出台了《一般数据保护条例》(GDPR)。在美国泄密者爱德华•斯诺登(Edward Snowden)爆料的刺激下，欧盟议员们为欧洲基于权利的数据处理方式增添了新的锋芒。 Enforcers gained formidable powers, including the authority to raid companies like Google, Meta and Amazon, and to force them to change how they operate. This showpiece regulation was hailed as the new global standard for data protection and privacy. 执法者获得了强大的权力，包括突袭谷歌、梅塔和亚马逊等公司的权力，并迫使它们改变运营方式。这一标志性规定被誉为数据保护和隐私的新的全球标准。 Rarely has hype so contrasted with impact. As the GDPR marks its fifth birthday, Europe remains unable to police big tech’s use of people’s data, despite an enforcement budget of more than €330m ($355m). Most enforcement decisions confirmed at the EU level have been mere reprimands or “amicable settlements”. This is enforcement without tooth or claw. 很少有宣传与影响形成如此鲜明的对比。在 GDPR 诞生5周年之际，欧洲仍无法监管大型科技公司对人们数据的使用，尽管其执法预算超过3.3亿欧元(合3.55亿美元)。在欧盟层面确认的多数执行决定，只不过是谴责或“友好解决”。这是没有牙齿和爪子的强制执行。 Rather than tame big tech firms’ data free-for-alls, Europe’s weak enforcement has allowed them to steal a march on smaller competitors and betray users with data chicanery, while hiding behind legalese. Polling shows that people want tech giants to be regulated. 欧洲软弱的执法不仅没有驯服大型科技公司的数据自由竞争，反而使它们能够抢在规模较小的竞争对手之前，通过数据欺骗欺骗用户，同时躲在法律术语的后面。民意调查显示，人们希望科技巨头受到监管。 But they also have a fatalism about data misuse and are fatigued by consent spam. This offers two important lessons. 但是他们也对数据滥用抱有宿命论的态度，并且厌倦了同意的垃圾邮件，这提供了两个重要的教训。 The first is that Europe has a two-part enforcement crisis. The first part is national. The GDPR ’s “country of origin” principle obliges the country in which a company has its European headquarters to police its data use across the entire EU . Four of the world’s five biggest digital platforms, by market capitalisation, are based in Ireland. But Ireland delivers few major decisions as lead EU enforcer. 首先，欧洲的执法危机分为两部分。第一部分是全国性的。GDPR 的“起源国”原则要求公司欧洲总部所在国监督整个欧盟的数据使用情况。按市值计算，全球五大数字平台中，有四个位于爱尔兰。但作为欧盟的主要执行者，爱尔兰几乎没有做出什么重大决定。 Nor is there much effective co-operation between national enforcers. The animosity between Ireland’s Data Protection Commission and its counterparts elsewhere in the EU was highlighted in January, when the Irish body began legal action against all other EU supervisory authorities (collectively, the European Data Protection Board) at Europe’s highest court. 国家执法机构之间也没有多少有效的合作。今年1月，爱尔兰数据保护委员会(Data Protection Commission)开始在欧洲最高法院对所有其他欧盟监管机构(统称为欧洲数据保护委员会(European Data Protection Board))采取法律行动，突显出该委员会与欧盟其他国家数据保护委员会之间的敌意。 This week the Irish commission fined Meta €1.2bn for violating GDPR rules that require certain safeguards to be in place when data is transferred between Europe and America. The case made headlines around the world. 本周，爱尔兰委员会对 Meta 处以12亿欧元的罚款，因为它违反了 GDPR 规则，该规则要求在欧洲和美国之间传输数据时，必须采取某些保障措施。这个案子成了全世界的头条新闻。 But the truth is that even a penalty of this size is of little consequence to a company that made a net profit of more than $23bn last year. 但事实是，对于一家去年净利润超过230亿美元的公司而言，即便是这种规模的罚款也不会造成什么影响。 The other part of Europe’s enforcement crisis sits within the European Commission. The EU ’s justice commissioner, Didier Reynders, has the tools and legal duty to oversee the implementation of EU law in member states, and to sue them if they refuse to behave. But aside from a few cases about enforcer independence, this has not happened in the realm of big tech and data. 欧洲执法危机的另一部分在于欧盟委员会(European Commission)。欧盟司法专员迪迪埃 · 雷恩德斯(Didier Reynders)有工具和法律义务监督欧盟法律在成员国的执行情况，如果他们拒绝采取行动，他还可以起诉他们。但是，除了少数有关执法者独立性的案例外，这种情况在大型科技和数据领域并没有发生。 To the contrary, Mr Reynders resists any suggestion that there is a problem with how tech giants are supervised by national enforcers, and by Ireland in particular. 相反，雷恩德斯先生反对任何关于科技巨头如何受到国家执法机构，特别是爱尔兰监管的说法。 Rather than insisting on the proper enforcement of GDPR , the commission is instead introducing new legislation on competition, online content and services, and artificial intelligence. Much of this would not be necessary had the GDPR ’s myriad provisions been energetically enforced. 欧盟委员会没有坚持正确执行 GDPR，而是引入了有关竞争、在线内容和服务以及人工智能的新立法。如果 GDPR 的无数条款得到大力执行，那么其中的大部分就没有必要了。 If the GDPR is any guide, these new laws will also be neglected. The commission must start taking member states to task. New EU laws such as the Artificial Intelligence Act must offer less latitude to feckless enforcers. The Digital Markets Act ( DMA ), another sweeping set of rules giving the bloc more powers over large tech firms, must be policed adversarially to rein in “gatekeeper” firms. On competition, Europe should follow the example of America’s reinvigorated trustbusters. 如果 GDPR 是任何指导，这些新的法律也将被忽视。欧盟委员会必须开始责备成员国。新的欧盟法律，例如《人工智能法案》 ，必须为不负责任的执法者提供更少的自由。《数字市场法》(DMA)是另一套全面的规则，赋予欧盟对大型科技公司更大的权力，必须对其进行对抗性监管，以约束“看门人”公司。在竞争方面，欧洲应该效仿美国重振旗鼓的反垄断机构。 It is not clear that this will happen. Big tech has dusted off its GDPR playbook and applied it to these new laws. At a recent commission event a representative from Meta, Facebook’s owner, gave a lengthy oration about the difficulties of designing data-consent requests, which are required by the DMA . EU competition officials listened politely, perhaps unaware that Meta had used this same tactic to blunt the GDPR . 目前尚不清楚这种情况是否会发生。大型科技公司已经重拾 GDPR 战术，并将其应用于这些新法律。在最近的一次委托活动中，Facebook 的所有者 Meta 的一位代表就设计 DMA 要求的数据同意请求的困难发表了长篇大论。欧盟竞争事务官员礼貌地听取了意见，也许没有意识到梅塔使用了同样的策略来削弱 GDPR。 The second lesson from the EU ’s enforcement failure concerns Europe’s global role. Data flows through the world’s digital markets as ichor courses through the veins of the gods. In the first year or so of the GDPR , Europe served as a de-facto global dictator of data flows. Almost all major economies, including China, drafted a GDPR clone or otherwise attempted to accommodate the EU ’s law. (America was the big exception, although some states, including California, now have GDPR -like laws.) 欧盟执法失败的第二个教训与欧洲的全球角色有关。数据在世界数字市场中流动，就像在神的血管中流动一样。在 GDPR 的第一年左右，欧洲实际上成为了数据流动的全球独裁者。几乎所有的主要经济体，包括中国，都起草了一份克隆版的 GDPR，或者试图以其他方式适应欧盟的法律。(美国是一个很大的例外，尽管包括加利福尼亚在内的一些州现在已经有了类似 GDPR 的法律。) But in 2019, a year after the GDPR was first applied, a new European Commission took office and squandered the global position its predecessor had established, by going soft on enforcement. Other countries have since cooled on the idea of mimicking or aligning with the EU . India dumped its draft GDPR clone last year. Britain is watering down its version. American legislators look upon Europe’s plague of consent spam with horror. This growing scepticism matters: Europe will lack credibility to set the global agenda in other areas if it allows its showpiece data law to fade. 但在2019年，也就是 GDPR 首次实施一年后，一个新的欧盟委员会(European Commission)上任，却在执行方面表现软弱，浪费了其前身建立的全球地位。此后，其它国家对效仿欧盟或与欧盟结盟的想法冷却了下来。印度去年抛弃了克隆 GDPR 草案。英国正在淡化其版本。美国立法者对欧洲充斥着同意垃圾邮件的瘟疫感到恐惧。这种日益增长的怀疑态度至关重要: 如果欧洲允许其示范性的数据法律消失，那么它将缺乏在其它领域制定全球议程的可信度。 The current commission’s term ends in October 2024. If the next commission neglects the current one’s new tech laws the same way that Mr Reynders has ignored his predecessor’s, Europe’s regulatory soft power will erode. This would be bad for human rights in Europe and beyond. 目前的委员会任期将于2024年10月结束。如果下一届委员会像雷恩德斯先生忽视其前任那样忽视当前的新技术法律，欧洲的监管软实力将受到侵蚀。这将不利于欧洲及其他地区的人权。 The most important lesson of the first five years of the GDPR is this: if Europe really wants to be a regulatory superpower, it must stop laying down new sedimentary layers of digital law and start enforcing the laws it has. ■ GDPR 头五年最重要的教训是: 如果欧洲真的想成为一个监管超级大国，它必须停止制定新的沉淀层数字法律，并开始执行已有的法律。￭ _______________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Johnny Ryan is a senior fellow at the Irish Council for Civil Liberties and the Open Markets Institute. 约翰尼 · 瑞安是爱尔兰公民自由委员会和公开市场研究所的高级研究员。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/by-invitation/2023/05/24/dont-be-fooled-by-metas-fine-for-data-breaches-says-johnny-ryan 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/by-invitation/2023/05/24/dont-be-fooled-by-metas-fine-for-data-breaches-says-johnny-ryan 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Financial crime 金融犯罪 A forensic-accounting expert on how to treat the fraud epidemic 法务会计专家，专门研究如何处理欺诈问题 Encourage more insiders to spill the beans, says Kelly Richmond Pope Kelly Richmond Pope 说，鼓励更多的内部人士泄露秘密 May 19th 2023 | 2023年5月19日 I T MARKS A spectacular fall from grace for a one-time Silicon Valley star. This week a court in California ruled that, Hail Mary appeals notwithstanding, Elizabeth Holmes must report to prison on May 30th to begin serving an 11-year sentence for fraud. 这标志着一位曾经的硅谷明星的辉煌陨落。本周，加利福尼亚一家法院裁定，尽管万福玛利亚上诉，伊丽莎白 · 霍姆斯必须在5月30日到监狱报到，开始因欺诈罪服刑11年。 Theranos, the startup Ms Holmes had founded in 2003, was worth $9bn at its peak but crashed after its much-vaunted blood-testing technology was shown not to work, and she ended up in the dock for deceiving investors. Theranos 是赫尔姆斯女士在2003年创立的一家初创公司，最高时价值90亿美元，但在其大肆吹嘘的血液检测技术被证明不起作用后破产，她最终因欺骗投资者而被告上了法庭。 Theranos is one of a long list of financial scandals that have made headlines in recent years. Theranos 是近年来成为头条新闻的一长串金融丑闻之一。 Also among these are the frauds at Wirecard, a German payments processor, and Abraaj, a Dubai-based private-equity firm, various crypto-heists, and a bonanza of misappropriation of government handouts to businesses during the covid-19 pandemic. 其中还包括德国支付处理公司 Wirecard 和迪拜私募股权公司 Abraaj 的欺诈行为，各种加密抢劫，以及在2019冠状病毒疾病大流行期间大量挪用政府发放给企业的救济金。 So many frauds are there, and so big are the biggest, that pilfering a billion dollars does not guarantee a global headline. Chances are you haven’t heard of Outcome Health, a Chicago-based health-tech firm whose former CEO and president were recently convicted of defrauding clients, lenders and investors of roughly that amount of money. 这里有如此多的欺诈行为，其中规模最大的也是如此之大，以至于盗窃10亿美元并不能保证成为全球头条新闻。你可能没有听说过 Outcome Health，这是一家总部位于芝加哥的健康科技公司，其前首席执行官和总裁最近被判诈骗客户、贷款人和投资者的金额大致相当。 Beneath the blockbuster frauds in the billions of dollars is an alarmingly long tail of smaller financial scams. Taken together, these add up to a huge global problem. 在数十亿美元巨额欺诈案的背后，是一长串令人震惊的小型金融诈骗案。这些因素加在一起，构成了一个巨大的全球性问题。 Research by Crowe, a financial-advisory firm, and the University of Portsmouth, in England, suggests that fraud costs businesses and individuals across the world more than $5trn each year. That is nearly 60% of what the world spends annually on health care. 英国金融咨询公司 Crowe 和朴茨茅斯大学的研究表明，欺诈每年给全世界的企业和个人造成超过5万亿美元的损失。这几乎是世界卫生保健每年开支的60% 。 The drivers of fraud are many and complex. Sometimes it is down to pure greed. 造成欺诈的因素很多，也很复杂，有时候纯粹是贪婪的结果。 Sometimes it begins with a relatively innocuous attempt to paper over a small financial crack but spirals when that initial effort fails; some believe that’s how it started with Bernie Madoff’s giant Ponzi scheme. 有时，它开始于一个相对无害的试图掩盖一个小的金融裂缝，但螺旋式上升时，最初的努力失败了; 有些人认为，这就是如何开始与伯尼麦道夫的巨大庞氏骗局。 Market pressure and a desire to exceed analysts’ expectations can also play a part: after the global financial crisis of 2007-09, GE was fined $50m for artificially smoothing its profits to keep investors sweet. Accounting ruses like this, which fall in a grey area, are more common than outright fraud. 市场压力和超出分析师预期的愿望也可能起到一定作用: 在2007年至2009年的全球金融危机之后，通用电气因人为地平滑利润以讨好投资者而被罚款5000万美元。像这样的会计伎俩属于灰色地带，比彻头彻尾的欺诈更为常见。 Among tech startups there is even an established term for manipulating the numbers to buy you time to navigate the rocky road to financial respectability: “fake it till you make it.” 在科技初创企业中，甚至有一个既定的术语，用来操纵数字，为你赢得时间，在通往财务上体面的坎坷道路上前进: “假装它，直到你做到它。” Fraud is an all-weather pursuit. Economic booms help fraudsters conceal creative accounting, such as exaggerated revenues. Recessions expose some of this wrongdoing, but they also spawn fresh shenanigans. 诈骗是全天候的追捕。经济繁荣有助于欺诈者隐瞒创造性会计，比如夸大的收入。经济衰退暴露了其中一些不当行为，但它们也催生了新的恶作剧。 As funding dries up, some owners and managers cook the books to stay in business. When survival is at stake, the line between what is acceptable and unacceptable when disclosing information or booking sales can become blurred. 随着资金枯竭，一些所有者和管理者为了维持生意而做假账。当生存受到威胁时，在披露信息或预订销售时，可接受与不可接受之间的界限可能变得模糊。 World events can stoke fraud, too. At the height of the pandemic, an estimated $80bn of American taxpayer money handed out under the Paycheck Protection Programme, set up to assist struggling businesses, was stolen by fraudsters. 世界大事也会助长欺诈。在疫情最严重的时候，美国纳税人根据“薪酬支票保护计划”(Paycheck Protection Programme)发放的约800亿美元资金被欺诈者盗走。该计划是为帮助陷入困境的企业而设立的。 The covid-induced increase in remote working has created new opportunities for miscreants. The 2022 KPMG Fraud Outlook concludes that the surge in working from home has reduced businesses’ ability to monitor employees’ behaviour. Geopolitics affects fraud, too. NATO countries experienced four times as many email-phishing attacks from Russia in 2022 as they did in 2020. Cybercrimes such as ransomware attacks have already transferred a staggering amount of wealth to illicit actors. 由新冠疫情引起的远程工作的增加为恶棍创造了新的机会。《2022年毕马威欺诈展望》(2022 KPMG Fraud Outlook)总结称，在家工作的激增降低了企业监控员工行为的能力。地缘政治也会影响欺诈。2022年，北约国家遭受的来自俄罗斯的电子邮件钓鱼攻击是2020年的四倍。勒索软件攻击等网络犯罪已经将巨额财富转移给了非法行为者。 The costs to businesses range from the theft of data, intellectual property and money to post-attack disruption, lost productivity and systems upgrades. 企业的成本从数据、知识产权和资金被盗，到攻击后的中断、生产力下降和系统升级。 It is panglossian to think fraud can be eliminated, but more can be done to reduce it. Corporate boards and investors need to ask more questions. Investors are often too quick to take comfort from the presence of big names on the list of owners and directors. 认为欺诈可以被消除是盲目乐观的，但是还可以做更多的事情来减少欺诈。公司董事会和投资者需要提出更多问题。投资者往往过于迅速地从股东和董事名单上的大人物身上获得安慰。 Some were clearly wowed by Theranos’s star-studded board, whose members included two former US secretaries of state and the ex-boss of Wells Fargo, a big bank. 一些人显然对 Theranos 众星云集的董事会感到惊叹，其成员包括两位前美国国务卿和大银行富国银行(Wells Fargo)的前老板。 Regulators need to be more sceptical, too. America’s Securities and Exchange Commission brushed aside a detailed and devastating analysis of Madoff’s business provided by a concerned fund manager, Harry Markopolos. 监管机构也需要更加怀疑。美国证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)对一位关心麦道夫的基金经理哈里•马科波洛斯(Harry Markopolos)提供的有关麦道夫业务的详尽而毁灭性的分析置之不理。 Germany’s financial-markets regulator was similarly dismissive of the short-sellers and journalists who called out Wirecard. 德国金融市场监管机构同样对呼吁使用 Wirecard 的卖空者和记者不屑一顾。 The most effective change would be to do more to encourage whistleblowers. Falsified financial statements must start with someone who notices fraudulent acts. When fraud happens, many people ask “Where were the auditors?”. 最有效的改变将是采取更多措施鼓励举报人。伪造的财务报表必须从注意到欺诈行为的人开始。当欺诈发生时，许多人会问“审计员在哪里?”. But the question should be “Where were the whistleblowers?” 但问题应该是“告密者在哪里?” As important as sceptical investors, regulators and journalists can be, much fraud would be undetectable without someone on the inside willing to spill the beans. Research shows that more than 40% of frauds are discovered by a whistleblower. 尽管持怀疑态度的投资者、监管机构和记者可能非常重要，但如果内部没有人愿意泄露秘密，很多欺诈行为将无法被发现。研究表明，超过40% 的欺诈行为是由告密者发现的。 The Wirecard scandal came to light largely because of the bravery of Pav Gill, one of the company’s lawyers, who went to the press with his concerns. The Theranos fraud was brought to the attention of the authorities and the Wall Street Journal by whistleblowing employees (one of whom was the grandson of a former political bigwig on the board). Wirecard 丑闻之所以曝光，很大程度上是因为该公司的律师之一帕夫•吉尔(Pav Gill)向媒体表达了自己的担忧。Theranos 欺诈案引起了当局和《华尔街日报》的注意，因为一些告密的雇员(其中一个是董事会前政治大人物的孙子)。 Too often, companies seek to silence whistleblowers, or portray them as mad, bad or both: Wirecard, for instance, fought back ferociously against Mr Gill’s allegations and the journalists who investigated them. 很多时候，公司试图让告密者闭嘴，或者把他们描绘成疯子、坏人或者两者兼而有之: 例如，Wirecard 公司对吉尔先生的指控和调查这些指控的记者进行了猛烈的反击。 Organisations need to create safe spaces where employees can voice their concerns about wrongdoing. Internal reporting channels need to be robust, and employees educated on how to use them. Creating an environment where whistleblowers are celebrated, not vilified, is critical. 企业需要创造一个安全的空间，让员工能够表达他们对不当行为的担忧。内部报告渠道需要健全，员工需要接受如何使用这些渠道的教育。创造一个举报人受到赞扬而不是中伤的环境是至关重要的。 Companies should worry more about anyone who can circumvent the controls, such as senior leaders or star employees, than about those inclined to raise concerns. 企业更应该担心的是那些能够规避管制的人，比如高管或明星员工，而不是那些倾向于提出担忧的人。 Governments, too, could do more. Protections for whistleblowers have been recognised as part of international law since 2003 when the United Nations adopted the Convention Against Corruption, and this has since been ratified by 137 countries. 政府也可以做得更多。自2003年联合国通过《反腐败公约》以来，对举报人的保护已被确认为国际法的一部分，此后有137个国家批准了该公约。 In reality, legal protections are patchy. They are strongest in America, which offers bounties to whistleblowers who provide information that leads to fines or imprisonment. 实际上，法律保护是零零碎碎的。他们在美国最为强大，对提供信息导致罚款或监禁的告密者给予奖励。 In much of Europe, and elsewhere, the law is still too soft on those who muzzle or retaliate against alarm-ringers. 在欧洲大部分地区和其他地区，法律对那些对警报响起者保持沉默或进行报复的人仍然过于宽松。 Fraud can be reduced. But first we must better understand who commits it, educate people on how to report it, and then ensure that policies protect those who choose to come forward. Until we do, financial crime will remain a multi-trillion-dollar scourge. ■ 可以减少欺诈。但首先，我们必须更好地了解是谁干的，教育人们如何报告，然后确保政策保护那些选择站出来的人。在此之前，金融犯罪仍将是一个数万亿美元的灾难。￭ Kelly Richmond Pope is the Barry Jay Epstein Endowed Professor of Forensic Accounting at DePaul University in Chicago, and the author of “Fool Me Once: Scams, Stories, and Secrets from the Trillion-Dollar Fraud Industry”. 凯利•里奇蒙德•波普是芝加哥德保罗大学法医会计学的巴里•杰•爱泼斯坦(Barry Jay Epstein)教授，著有《愚弄我一次: 来自万亿美元欺诈行业的骗局、故事和秘密》(Fool Me Once: sams，Stories，and secret from the 兆美元欺诈行业)一书。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/by-invitation/2023/05/19/a-forensic-accounting-expert-on-how-to-treat-the-fraud-epidemic 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/by-invitation/2023/05/19/a-forensic-accounting-expert-on-how-to-treat-the-fraud-epidemic 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

By Invitation 邀请函 Sections 部分 United States 美国 Briefing 简报 Ron DeSantis has little chance of beating Donald Trump ❗ 🔄 A bungled coup :: Hopes of depriving the former president of the Republican nomination are fading 失败的政变: 剥夺前总统共和党提名的希望正在消失 By Invitation 邀请函 Sections 部分 United States 美国

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 A bungled coup 一场失败的政变 Ron DeSantis has little chance of beating Donald Trump ❗ 🔄 Hopes of depriving the former president of the Republican nomination are fading 剥夺这位前总统共和党总统候选人提名的希望越来越渺茫 May 24th 2023 | Washington, DC 2023年5月24日 | 华盛顿特区 B ELATEDLY AND nervously, the would-be assassins have been lining up. On May 22nd Tim Scott, a senator from South Carolina, became the latest Republican to announce a run for president. 迟来的，紧张的，潜在的刺客已经排队等候。5月22日，来自南卡罗来纳州的参议员蒂姆 · 斯科特成为最新一位宣布竞选总统的共和党人。 Greater fanfare accompanied the official declaration (on Twitter) on May 24th that Ron DeSantis, the governor of Florida, is joining the race for the Republican nomination. He has been widely heralded as the candidate with the best chance of defeating the favourite, Donald Trump. 5月24日，佛罗里达州州长罗恩 · 德桑蒂斯(Ron DeSantis)在 Twitter 上正式宣布将加入共和党总统候选人提名角逐。人们普遍认为，他是最有可能击败最受欢迎的候选人唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)的候选人。 But even as more plotters step forward, the chances of a successful coup to overthrow Mr Trump are growing slimmer by the day. 但是，即使有更多的阴谋家站出来，成功推翻特朗普先生的政变的可能性一天比一天小。 Just a short while ago Mr DeSantis seemed successfully to have engineered a form of Trumpism without Trump. In November he won re-election in Florida by a resplendent 19-point margin. 就在不久前，德桑蒂斯先生似乎成功地创造了一种没有特朗普的特朗普主义。去年11月，他以19个百分点的优势在佛罗里达州赢得连任。 In damning contrast, Mr Trump’s attempts to play kingmaker in the midterm elections went disastrously wrong, with many of the candidates he endorsed losing races that the Republican Party had considered in the bag. 与此形成鲜明对比的是，特朗普先生试图在中期选举中扮演“国王制定者”的角色，结果却是灾难性的错误，他支持的许多候选人都输掉了共和党认为已经囊中羞涩的竞选。 Mr Trump appeared suitably deflated when he launched his presidential campaign on November 15th at Mar-a-Lago, his estate in Palm Beach, Florida. Back then some opinion polls put the two candidates neck-and-neck among primary voters. 特朗普先生11月15日在他位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的庄园 Mar-a-Lago 开始他的总统竞选活动时，显得相当沮丧。当时的一些民意调查显示，两位候选人在初选选民中的支持率不相上下。 Six months later it is Mr DeSantis who has been stumbling. 六个月后，是德桑提斯先生跌跌撞撞。 He has been criticised as an isolationist for dismissing the war in Ukraine as a mere “territorial dispute”, as an anti-corporatist for picking fights with Disney and as an extremist for signing a ban on abortion beyond six weeks of pregnancy. 他被批评为孤立主义者，因为他将乌克兰战争斥为一场纯粹的“领土争端”; 他反社团主义，因为他挑起与迪士尼的争端; 他签署了一项禁止孕期超过6周的堕胎的禁令，因此他被批评为极端主义者。 Mr Trump, meanwhile, has recovered his step, making a triumphant return to the campaign trail. He and his team have spent months pummelling Mr DeSantis. 与此同时，特朗普先生已经收复失地，凯旋而归，重返竞选之路。他和他的团队花了几个月的时间来打击 DeSantis 先生。 In retrospect, the governor’s decision to wait until Florida’s legislature had completed its annual session earlier this month before announcing his candidacy looks like a miscalculation, although the delay was in part to allow lawmakers to pass a bill permitting him to run for president without resigning as governor. 现在回想起来，州长决定等到佛罗里达州立法机构本月早些时候结束年度会议后再宣布他的候选人资格，这看起来像是一个错误的估计，尽管这种延迟在一定程度上是为了让议员们能够通过一项法案，允许他在不辞去州长职务的情况下竞选总统。 During the long interlude he has endured a protracted beating on the airwaves without offering much defence. It is as if Brutus had overslept on the Ides of March, giving Julius Caesar a chance to put on his armour, but had tried to proceed with his hit job all the same. 在这漫长的间歇期间，他在电视广播中遭受了长时间的打击，却没有提供多少保护。这就好像布鲁图斯在选战风云上睡过头了，给了凯撒一个穿上盔甲的机会，但他还是试图继续他的刺杀任务。 The plot to overthrow Mr Trump, which once seemed plausible, now looks forlorn. 推翻特朗普先生的阴谋一度看似合理，但现在看来已经失败。 Lend me your cheers 让我听到你的欢呼 In 2016 Mr Trump ran as an insurgent. In 2020 he ran as the incumbent. For 2024, he is running as a hybrid of the two—insurrectionist and institutionalist all at once. It is proving to be a potent combination, which has helped to build a huge lead in the early polling. 2016年，特朗普先生以叛乱分子的身份参选。2020年，他以现任总统的身份参选。对于2024年，他将同时以两者的混合体——叛乱分子和制度主义者的身份参选。事实证明，这是一个强有力的组合，有助于在早期民调中建立巨大的领先优势。 Among likely voters in the primary, Mr Trump retains the stature of a former president, but is also seen as the put-upon underdog, owing to his claims that the election of 2020 was stolen, his bans from social media and his many legal troubles . Early stumbles, such as his lacklustre campaign launch and an embarrassing dinner with a white supremacist, have been righted by a new campaign operation that is more professional than the chaotic family affairs of Mr Trump’s past runs. 在可能参加初选的选民中，特朗普先生保持着前总统的地位，但也被视为受压迫者，因为他声称2020年的大选是被盗的，他被禁止使用社交媒体，以及他面临许多法律麻烦。早期的挫折，比如他平淡无奇的竞选启动和与白人至上主义者的尴尬晚宴，已经被一个新的竞选运作所纠正，这个运作比特朗普先生过去的混乱家庭事务更加专业。 What is more, the Republican Party has been thoroughly Trumpified. This is especially true at the state level, where most of the rules for primaries are set. Unlike 2016, when the party establishment shunned Mr Trump, today he dominates the race for elite endorsements. 更重要的是，共和党已经彻底被特朗普化了。在州级别上尤其如此，因为大多数主要规则都是在州级别上设置的。与2016年党内建制派回避特朗普先生不同，今天他主导了精英支持者的竞争。 Many big donors have defected to alternatives such as Mr DeSantis, but this is not as damaging as it sounds. 许多大的捐赠者已经转向了像德桑蒂斯先生这样的替代者，但是这并没有听起来那么有害。 Mr Trump will have no trouble raising money from his army of small-dollar donors and will again be able to portray himself as the authentic tribune of the people, assailed by the henchmen of the out-of-touch elite. 特朗普先生将毫不费力地从他的小额捐赠者军队中筹集资金，并且将再次能够把自己描绘成真正的人民护民官，受到那些与世隔绝的精英们的追随者的攻击。 Among the Republican base, he has universal name recognition and near-universal admiration. 在共和党基础选民中，他有着普遍的知名度和近乎普遍的钦佩。 This reverence for Mr Trump makes it difficult for his competitors to attack him. Most of them come not to bury Trumpism, but to praise it. But the resulting muddle blunts their appeal. 这种对特朗普先生的尊敬使得他的竞争对手很难攻击他。他们中的大多数人不是来埋葬特朗普主义，而是来赞美它。但由此产生的混乱削弱了它们的吸引力。 Jason Miller, a spokesman for the Trump campaign, puts it this way, “Why would you go to see a Rolling Stones tribute band, when the Rolling Stones themselves are still on tour?” 特朗普竞选团队的发言人杰森•米勒(Jason Miller)这样说道: “当滚石乐队们还在巡回演出的时候，你为什么要去看滚石乐队的致敬演出呢?” Are the primaries over before they have begun? Some think so. “Hope is not a strategy,” says Rick Wilson, a former Republican operative who now runs the Lincoln Project, an anyone-but-Trump outfit. He thinks Mr Trump would have to be incapacitated to lose. 初选还没开始就结束了吗？有人这么认为。“希望不是一种策略,”前共和党特工里克•威尔逊(Rick Wilson)表示。威尔逊目前负责林肯项目(Lincoln Project) ，这是一家只支持特朗普的机构。他认为特朗普先生必须丧失失败的能力。 “Donald Trump will start taking DeSantis’s head off in debates and kicking it around like a soccer ball. And the Republican base voters want that show,” he says. “唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)将开始在辩论中砍下德桑蒂斯的头，像踢足球一样到处踢。共和党基层选民希望看到这样的表演。”。 Ask closeted anti-Trump Republicans around Washington how the primary will go, and many conjure scenes of brutality worthy of the Gallic wars. 问问华盛顿周围未出柜的反对特朗普的共和党人初选将如何进行，许多人会联想到配得上高卢战争的残暴场面。 More optimistic sorts, however, point out that there is still a long way to go, even if Mr Trump’s chariot is building speed. “We’re still months and months and months away from voting. 然而，更乐观的人指出，即使特朗普先生的战车正在加速，仍有很长的路要走。“我们离投票还有好几个月。 National polls are pretty meaningless—they are going to mean something once voting has started,” says David Kochel, a Republican consultant based in Iowa (the first state to vote) who previously worked with Mitt Romney and Jeb Bush. 全国性的民意调查毫无意义，一旦投票开始，它们就有了意义。”大卫•科切尔(David Kochel)是爱荷华州(第一个投票的州)的共和党顾问，曾与米特•罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)和杰布•布什(Jeb Bush)共事。 Consultants for struggling campaigns swap Cinderella stories about late-breaking candidates who went from 2% in Iowa to 20% in the space of a month. 苦苦挣扎的竞选顾问们交换着灰姑娘的故事，讲述着最后一批候选人在一个月内从爱荷华州的2% 上升到20% 的故事。 Early polls, it is true, do not predict the final results as well as later ones. But that does not mean they are useless. There is a correlation between early strength and the final results (see chart 1). 的确，早期的民意调查并不能像预测后期的结果那样预测最终的结果。但这并不意味着它们毫无用处。早期强度与最终结果之间存在相关性(见图表1)。 At present, Mr Trump commands the support of almost 55% of primary voters according to a polling average constructed by FiveThirtyEight, a data-journalism outfit. That is more than 30 percentage points more than Mr DeSantis’s average. 目前，根据数据新闻机构 FiveThirtyEight 的民调平均结果，特朗普先生赢得了近55% 的初选选民的支持。这比德桑蒂斯先生的平均水平高出了30个百分点。 In contested primaries over the past 40 years, six of the eight candidates who have polled above 30% this far ahead of the voting went on to capture their party’s nomination. 在过去40年竞争激烈的初选中，8位候选人中有6位在投票前就已经获得了超过30% 的选票，并获得了党内提名。 The two candidates who failed to capitalise on such big leads were Ted Kennedy, who ran against an incumbent president, Jimmy Carter, in 1980, and Hillary Clinton, who was eventually upstaged in 2008 by the charismatic Barack Obama. 未能利用如此巨大领先优势的两位候选人分别是泰德•肯尼迪(Ted Kennedy)和希拉里•克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。肯尼迪曾在1980年与现任总统吉米•卡特(Jimmy Carter)竞选总统，而希拉里最终在2008年被富有魅力的巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)抢了风头。 The Republican candidate who comes closest to both Carter-like incumbency and Obama-like magnetism this year is, of course, Mr Trump. 当然，今年最接近卡特式现任总统和奥巴马式魅力的共和党候选人是特朗普先生。 The problem is not simply one of a divided field. Although there are already six declared, halfway plausible candidates, with more to come in all likelihood, even a two-horse race would favour Mr Trump. Recent polling conducted for The Economist by YouGov finds that, in a head-to-head contest, Republican primary voters prefer Mr Trump to Mr DeSantis by 58% to 25%. And the former president’s support is not at all reluctant or half-hearted. Fully 64% of Republicans want Mr Trump to run again, despite the many alternatives. 这个问题不仅仅是一个被分割的领域。尽管已经有六位已经宣布的、半合理的候选人，而且很有可能还会有更多的候选人，但即使是两匹马的竞争也会有利于特朗普先生。YouGov 最近为《经济学人》进行的民意调查发现，在一场面对面的竞争中，共和党初选选民以58% 对25% 的比例支持特朗普先生，而不是德桑蒂斯先生。这位前总统的支持一点也不勉强或半心半意。整整64% 的共和党人希望特朗普先生再次竞选，尽管有很多选择。 Democrats, by contrast, are much less energised about Joe Biden, their presumptive nominee: only 53% of them want the president to run again. 相比之下，民主党人对他们的假定提名人乔•拜登(Joe Biden)则没有那么大的热情: 只有53% 的民主党人希望总统再次参选。 In 2016 Mr Trump’s opponents thought his outrageous statements and chaotic campaign would inevitably lead to political failure. That proved hopelessly Pollyannaish. Most now assume there is little that Mr Trump could say or do to alienate his base. 在2016年，特朗普先生的反对者认为他的无礼言论和混乱的竞选将不可避免地导致政治失败。这被证明是盲目的盲目乐观。现在大多数人认为，特朗普先生几乎不可能说什么或做什么来疏远他的基础选民。 But some opponents still hope that his campaign will implode because of the sort of messy infighting that characterised his entire time in the White House. 但一些反对者仍然希望他的竞选活动会因为他在白宫任职期间经常发生的那种混乱的内斗而崩溃。 The hitch is that the chaos candidate is a bit more orderly this time. In 2016 Mr Trump’s campaign attracted a fair number of charlatans. Current management is more stable. Susie Wiles, one of its leaders, ran Mr Trump’s successful operation in Florida in both 2016 and 2020. She also headed Mr DeSantis’s run for governor in 2018, when he was Mr Trump’s protégé. 问题是这次的混沌候选者更有序一些。2016年，特朗普先生的竞选活动吸引了相当数量的江湖骗子。目前的管理更加稳定。其领导人之一苏茜 · 怀尔斯(Susie Wiles)曾在2016年和2020年两次成功地负责特朗普先生在佛罗里达州的行动。她还领导了德桑蒂斯2018年的州长竞选，当时他是特朗普先生的门生。 There is little family involvement: Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, the former president’s daughter and son-in-law, who served as senior advisers when he was in the White House, are not expected to play any part in the campaign. 伊万卡 · 特朗普(Ivanka Trump)和前总统的女儿和女婿贾里德 · 库什纳(Jared Kushner)几乎没有家庭参与: 预计他们不会在竞选中发挥任何作用。库什纳在特朗普入主白宫期间担任高级顾问。 Mr Trump also has much more personal experience: this is his third run for president (fourth if you count his abortive campaign with the Reform Party in 2000). His Republican opponents are all running for the first time. 特朗普先生还有更多的个人经历: 这是他第三次竞选总统(如果算上他在2000年与改革党的竞选失败的话，是第四次)。他的共和党对手都是第一次参加竞选。 Mr Trump’s team is assiduous. “Shortly after I got elected, the next day or a couple of days later, I received a voicemail from President Trump congratulating me,” says Mike Brown, the chairman of the Republican Party in Kansas. Trump 先生的团队很勤奋。堪萨斯州共和党主席迈克•布朗(Mike Brown)表示: “我当选后不久，第二天或几天后，就收到了特朗普总统的语音邮件，祝贺我。”。 The Trump campaign has been “exceptional” in communicating about the primary in the state, he says. 他表示，特朗普的竞选团队在该州初选的沟通方面“非常出色”。 The rules that will translate the results of individual state primaries and caucuses (in effect, decentralised party conferences) into votes for contenders for the nomination at the party’s national convention are arcane and ever-changing. 将各州初选和党团会议(实际上是分散的党内会议)的结果转化为党内全国代表大会提名候选人投票的规则晦涩难懂，且不断变化。 Unlike the Democratic primaries, in which a state’s votes are typically split among the candidates in proportion to their share of the vote, many Republican primaries follow a winner-take-all system. 与民主党初选不同的是，许多共和党初选遵循的是赢家通吃的制度。在民主党初选中，一个州的选票通常按照候选人所占选票的比例分配给候选人。 That can turn a relatively narrow lead in terms of the share of the vote into a crushing dominion over delegates. While Mr Trump was president, he encouraged states to adopt such systems or other rules that help the front-runner. 这可能会使得在选票份额方面相对微弱的领先优势变成对代表的压倒性支配。在特朗普先生担任总统期间，他鼓励各州采用这样的制度或其他规则来帮助领先者。 And the dates of the primaries keep moving even further forward, giving insurgent candidates ever less time to build momentum (see chart 2). 而且初选的日期还在不断向前推进，给了反叛分子候选人更少的时间来建立势头(见图表2)。 Mr Trump’s team has been seizing a march on its adversaries in other respects, too, diligently soliciting endorsements from senior figures in the party with calls and invitations to the imperial court at Mar-a-Lago. 特朗普先生的团队也在其他方面赶超其对手，通过给马阿拉歌庄园的朝廷打电话和发出邀请，积极地争取党内高层人物的支持。 Such support was not forthcoming in 2016, but has been flooding in ahead of next year’s contest. Mr Trump has already racked up the endorsements of 51 of the 222 Republicans in the House of Representatives and ten of the 49 Republican senators. 这种支持在2016年没有出现，但在明年的角逐之前已经涌入。特朗普先生已经获得了众议院222名共和党议员中的51名和49名共和党参议员中的10名的支持。 His opponents have just seven representatives and two senators among them all. The Trump campaign takes particular pride in its success with Florida’s delegation to Congress, who have largely spurned their state’s governor. 他的对手只有七名众议员和两名参议员。特朗普的竞选团队尤为自豪的是，他们在佛罗里达州的国会代表团取得了成功，而这个代表团基本上对该州州长不屑一顾。 Eleven of Florida’s 20 Republican representatives have endorsed Mr Trump, compared with just one for Mr DeSantis. Mr DeSantis and Mr Scott could not expect many endorsements before entering the race, of course, but they have a lot of catching up to do. 佛罗里达州的20名共和党代表中有11人支持特朗普先生，而德桑蒂斯先生只有一人。当然，德桑蒂斯先生和斯科特先生在参加竞选之前不能指望得到很多支持，但他们还有很多事情要做。 Operationally, at least, Mr DeSantis can certainly hope to catch up. He is a prodigious fundraiser, taking in an astounding $217m during his gubernatorial run in 2022, much of which went unspent. 至少在操作上，德桑蒂斯先生肯定有希望赶上来。他是一个惊人的资金筹集者，在2022年竞选州长期间获得了惊人的2.17亿美元，其中大部分没有花掉。 Because Mr DeSantis is the favourite among deep-pocketed donors (though his stances on abortion, Disney and Ukraine have irked some), he will rely heavily on an organisation called “Never Back Down”, a so-called super PAC that can take unlimited donations as long as it does not co-ordinate with the official campaign. A person familiar with Mr DeSantis’s thinking says he could raise $250m between his official campaign and the super PAC . The mastermind of Never Back Down is Jeff Roe, the founder of a consultancy called Axiom Strategies, which worked on both the failed presidential campaign in 2016 of Ted Cruz, a Republican senator from Texas, and Glenn Youngkin’s successful bid for governor in Virginia in 2021. Never Back Down is expected to carpet-bomb television with advertisements and also pay for the canvassers and organisers who must traipse around early-voting states for months. 由于德桑蒂斯先生是财力雄厚的捐赠者中最受欢迎的(尽管他在堕胎、迪斯尼和乌克兰问题上的立场惹恼了一些人) ，他将严重依赖一个名为“永不退缩”的组织，这是一个所谓的超级政治行动委员会，只要不与官方活动协调，就可以接受无限制的捐赠。一位熟悉德桑蒂斯先生想法的人士表示，他可以在他的正式竞选活动和超级政治行动委员会之间筹集2.5亿美元。“永不退缩”的策划者是咨询公司 Axiom Strategies 的创始人杰夫 · 罗(Jeff Roe) ，该公司曾参与德克萨斯州共和党参议员特德 · 克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)2016年失败的总统竞选，以及格伦 · 扬金(Glenn Youngkin)2021年成功竞选弗吉尼亚州州长。预计《决不后退》将用广告对电视台进行地毯式轰炸，并为那些必须在提前投票的州游荡数月的游说者和组织者支付费用。 The official campaign will be run by members of Mr DeSantis’s inner circle in Florida. The likely campaign manager, Generra Peck, headed his most recent campaign for governor. His polling guru will probably be another homegrown talent, Ryan Tyson. 官方的竞选活动将由德桑蒂斯先生在佛罗里达州的核心集团成员进行。可能担任竞选经理的佩克将军(GenerraPeck)领导了他最近的州长竞选活动。他的民意调查专家很可能是另一位本土天才，瑞安 · 泰森。 Mr DeSantis is the favourite to win the arms race for donations. He will have plenty of campaign veterans who know how to spend his takings. 德桑蒂斯先生是赢得捐款军备竞赛的热门人选。他将有很多知道如何使用他的收入的竞选老兵。 I came, I saw, I squandered 我来了，我看见了，我挥霍了 If cash were all it took to become president, America would be midway through the first term of Michael Bloomberg, a tycoon and former mayor of New York who lavished $1.1bn on a failed campaign for the Democratic nomination in 2020. Persuading Republican voters to defect from Mr Trump, as Mr DeSantis must now do, is a difficult task. 如果只需要现金就能成为总统，那么美国迈克尔·布隆伯格的第一个任期将进行到一半。这位大亨、前纽约市长曾在2020年民主党总统候选人提名竞选中挥霍11亿美元，但最终以失败告终。说服共和党选民背叛特朗普先生，就像德桑蒂斯先生现在必须做的那样，是一项艰巨的任务。 Many obvious avenues of attack, the ones that might appeal to swing voters in a general election, are non-starters in the primary. 许多明显的攻击途径，那些可能在大选中吸引摇摆不定的选民的途径，在初选中都是不起作用的。 Mr Trump’s encouragement of the mob that stormed Congress on January 6th 2021 hardly imperils his standing in the party, most of which believes that the election of 2020 was stolen. 特朗普先生对2021年1月6日席卷国会的暴民的鼓励丝毫没有危及他在党内的地位，大多数党员认为2020年的选举是偷来的。 Nor can his opponents make hay from the inquiries, investigations and lawsuits that have dogged the president since he left office, from the FBI ’s search for classified documents at Mar-a-Lago to his recent indictment by Manhattan’s district attorney for fraudulent book-keeping. These indignities, far from diminishing Mr Trump in Republicans’ eyes, have turned him into a martyr. 他的反对者也无法从总统离任后一直困扰他的调查、调查和诉讼中获利，从联邦调查局(FBI)在马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)搜寻机密文件，到他最近被曼哈顿地区检察官以欺诈簿记的罪名起诉。在共和党人眼中，这些侮辱非但没有削弱特朗普先生的地位，反而把他变成了一名烈士。 Even political rivals like Mr DeSantis have felt obliged to come to his defence. 甚至像德桑蒂斯先生这样的政治对手也觉得有必要为他辩护。 The party firmly believes in Trumpism, the blend of populism, protectionism, nativism and disdain for institutions and norms. The old neoconservative and business-friendly order has been swept away. 党坚信 Trumpism 是民粹主义、保护主义、本土主义以及对制度和规范的蔑视的混合体。旧的新保守主义和有利于商业的秩序已经被扫除。 The other candidates’ failure to present a “value proposition”, says Mr Miller of the Trump campaign, “will impede their ability to build coalitions and actually go and challenge the president…Saying that you’re Trump without the drama, which is kind of where it seems Ron DeSantis is going—that just doesn’t work.” 特朗普竞选团队的米勒先生表示，其他候选人未能展现出“价值主张”，“将阻碍他们建立联盟的能力，并且实际上会去挑战总统... ... 说你是特朗普，但没有戏剧性，这似乎就是罗恩•德桑蒂斯(Ron DeSantis)要去的地方——这根本行不通。” Presidential primaries are often popularity contests more than they are policy debates—and this one will be little different. All the candidates agree that Mr Biden is intentionally wrecking the country, that wokeness has run amok and that the southern border must be sealed. 总统初选往往是民意测验，而不是政策辩论ーー这次也不会有什么不同。所有的候选人都认为拜登先生是在故意破坏这个国家，觉醒已经失控，南部边境必须被封锁。 There are only modest signs of disagreement. Mr Trump is attacking Mr DeSantis from the left on fiscal matters, arguing that he will endanger Social Security (the state pension) and Medicare (free health care for the elderly), two sacrosanct programmes among older voters. 只有少量迹象表明双方存在分歧。特朗普先生在财政问题上攻击德桑蒂斯先生，认为他将危及社会保障(国家养老金)和医疗保险(老年人免费医疗保健) ，这两个在老年选民中神圣不可侵犯的项目。 Mr Scott is calling for less confrontational politics. More internationalist candidates such as Nikki Haley, a former governor of South Carolina, argue that continuing to back Ukraine is vital for America’s national security. 斯科特先生呼吁减少政治对抗。更多的国际主义候选人，比如前南卡罗来纳州州长尼基•黑利(niki Haley)认为，继续支持乌克兰对美国的国家安全至关重要。 Others are more isolationist than Mr Trump. Vivek Ramaswamy, a wealthy Indian-American entrepreneur from Ohio, says, “We’ve got to be willing to ban most US businesses from doing business in China until the CCP [Chinese Communist Party] falls or until the CCP radically reforms itself.” That is a harder decoupling than the other candidates have proposed. He also wants to ban affirmative action, shut down the FBI and use the army to dismantle Mexican cartels that ship fentanyl across the border. Early polls show some success in peeling off Trump voters, but it is a delicate operation. “We rally behind America first for a reason. It’s not Trump first,” says Mr Ramaswamy. 其他人比特朗普先生更加孤立主义。来自俄亥俄州的富有的印裔美国企业家维韦克•拉马斯瓦米(Vivek Ramaswamy)表示: “我们必须愿意禁止大多数美国企业在中国做生意，直到中共(中国共产党)垮台，或者直到中共进行彻底改革。”这比其他候选人提出的“脱钩”难度更大。他还想禁止平权法案，关闭联邦调查局，利用军队瓦解运送芬太尼过境的墨西哥贩毒集团。早期的民意调查显示，在拉拢特朗普选民方面取得了一些成功，但这是一个微妙的操作。“我们首先支持美国是有原因的。它不是特朗普第一,”拉马斯瓦米先生说。 “I’m running against him, but to be clear, I still recoil at the idea that the nominee should somehow be the product of some plot of Republican donors.” “我正在与他竞选，但要明确的是，我仍然反对这样一种观点，即提名人应该是某些共和党捐助者阴谋的产物。” But the conspirators must at some point coalesce if they are to be rid of Caesar. In 2016 the fractured field, combined with winner-take-all primary rules, helped Mr Trump triumph. 但如果要除掉凯撒，阴谋者必须在某个时刻联合起来。2016年，支离破碎的领域，加上赢家通吃的初选规则，帮助特朗普先生取得了胜利。 Whereas Democrats united behind Mr Biden in 2020 when it became apparent that Bernie Sanders, a left-wing ideologue, might secure the nomination, Republicans may be hard to corral. At the moment, Mr DeSantis certainly looks like the strongest rival to Mr Trump. 2020年，当左翼理论家伯尼 · 桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)可能获得提名成为明显事实时，民主党人团结一致支持拜登先生，而共和党人可能很难说服。目前，德桑蒂斯先生看起来无疑是特朗普先生最有力的竞争对手。 But the other candidates seem much keener to attack him than the former president, for fear of alienating the base. Ms Haley has taken to denouncing Mr DeSantis for feuding with Disney, for instance. 但其他候选人似乎比前总统更热衷于攻击他，因为他们担心疏远基础选民。例如，黑利女士已经开始谴责德桑蒂斯先生与迪斯尼的不和。 Other prominent Republicans, such as Kari Lake, a failed candidate for governor of Arizona last year, and Kristi Noem, the governor of South Dakota, have taken to swiping at Mr DeSantis as well. 其他著名的共和党人，如去年竞选亚利桑那州州长失败的卡莉 · 雷克和南达科他州州长克里斯蒂 · 诺姆，也开始抨击德桑蒂斯先生。 They may be auditioning for the job of vice-president to Mr Trump, and see such attacks as a quick way into his good graces. 他们可能是在为特朗普先生的副总统职位试镜，并将此类攻击视为赢得他好感的捷径。 Despite his stumbles in recent months, Mr DeSantis is a clever and driven man. He may regain his lean and hungry look and let slip the dogs of war. 尽管他最近几个月跌跌撞撞，但德桑蒂斯先生是一个聪明而有上进心的人。他可能会恢复瘦削和饥饿的样子，让战争的恶犬溜走。 Many voters will pay close attention to the televised debates, the first of which will be held in August in Wisconsin (although the former president may not participate). 许多选民将密切关注电视辩论，第一场辩论将于8月在威斯康星州举行(尽管这位前总统可能不会参加)。 Mr DeSantis could point out that the national debt soared by $8trn during Mr Trump’s presidency; that crime and illegal immigration both increased despite all the former president’s big talk on both scores; that covid-19 was poorly contained and that another epidemic, of wokeness, became more rather than less contagious during his presidency. 德桑蒂斯先生可以指出，在特朗普总统任期内，国家债务飙升了8万亿美元; 犯罪和非法移民都有所增加，尽管这位前总统在这两方面都大谈特谈; 2019冠状病毒疾病控制不力; 另一种流行病——觉醒——在特朗普总统任期内变得更具传染性，而不是传染性更小。 It might help to point out that Mr Trump, a man famous for peremptory sackings, failed to dismiss Anthony Fauci, the public face of efforts to repress covid, who is about as popular in conservative circles as gun seizures and sharia law. 这或许有助于指出，以强制解雇闻名的特朗普先生未能解雇安东尼•福奇(Anthony Fauci)。福奇是镇压冠状病毒疾病的公众形象代言人，在保守派圈子中的受欢迎程度与枪支缴获和伊斯兰教法差不多。 Such barbs could draw some blood. If wielded with enough force and frequency, they might even fell a man as mighty as Caesar. Luckily for Mr Trump, he is facing a fractious, squabbling and timid bunch. ■ 这种冷嘲热讽可能会引起一些争议。如果使用足够的力量和频率，他们甚至可能打败一个像凯撒一样强大的人。对特朗普先生来说幸运的是，他面对的是一群脾气暴躁、争吵不休、胆小如鼠的家伙。￭ Editor’s note (May 25th 2023): This article was updated after Ron DeSantis’s announcement. 编者按(2023年5月25日) : 本文在 Ron DeSantis 发表声明后更新。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/briefing/2023/05/24/ron-desantis-has-little-chance-of-beating-donald-trump 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/briefing/2023/05/24/ron-desantis-has-little-chance-of-beating-donald-trump 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Briefing 简报 Sections 部分 The Americas 美国 United States 美国 How Donald Trump’s trials and the Republican primary will intersect 唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)的审判与共和党初选将如何交叉 Tribulations and trials :: Where the rule of law clashes with the will of the people * 法治与人民意愿发生冲突的地方 Vasectomies rose by 29% in the three months after the end of Roe 在 Roe 结束后的三个月内，输精管切除术增加了29% Solidarity snips :: Brothers are doing it for themselves 团结一致: 兄弟们都是为了自己 Downtown San Francisco is at a tipping-point 旧金山市中心正处于一个临界点 The doom loop :: The city faces several crises, but one stands out 厄运循环: 这个城市面临几个危机，但有一个很突出 The push to bring insulin prices down in America 推动美国胰岛素价格下降 Drug pricing :: But not all patients are able to use the available schemes 药品定价: 但并非所有患者都能使用现有的方案 American policing has changed since George Floyd’s murder 自从乔治 · 弗洛伊德被杀后，美国的治安状况发生了变化 The too few and the less proud :: It needs to change further, and be better funded 它需要进一步改变，需要更好的资金 DeSantis is a truer believer, if a lesser politician, than Trump ❗ 🔄 Lexington :: The Florida governor aims to take Trump out of Trumpism 莱克星顿: 这位佛罗里达州州长的目标是让特朗普脱离特朗普主义。 Briefing 简报 Sections 部分 The Americas 美国

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Tribulations and trials 苦难和考验 How Donald Trump’s trials and the Republican primary will intersect 唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)的审判与共和党初选将如何交叉 Where the rule of law clashes with the will of the people 法治与人民意愿相冲突的地方 May 25th 2023 | NEW YORK 2023年5月25日 | 纽约 O NLY FOUR qualifications are necessary to become an American president. Article II of the constitution requires presidents to be natural-born citizens who have reached 35 years of age and lived in America for 14 years. 成为美国总统只需要四个条件。宪法第二条规定，总统必须是自然出生的公民，年满35岁，在美国生活了14年。 The 22nd Amendment adds that candidates must not have been elected twice to the job previously. Donald Trump satisfies those conditions, including the final hurdle—despite his insistence that he won both the 2016 and 2020 elections. 第22修正案补充说，候选人不得已经两次当选，以前的工作。唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)满足了这些条件，包括最后一个障碍ーー尽管他坚称自己赢得了2016年和2020年的选举。 Nothing prevents candidates dogged by legal troubles, including criminal convictions, from running for president. Several presidential aspirants have even sought the office from behind bars. 没有什么能阻止那些被法律纠纷，包括刑事定罪所困扰的候选人竞选总统。一些有意竞选总统的人甚至在狱中寻求入主白宫。 The cases and the primaries will overlap in ways likely to set the rule of law against the will of the people. This month Mr Trump was found liable for sexually assaulting and defaming E. Jean Carroll (he is appealing against the judgment). 这些案件和初选将以可能使法治违背人民意愿的方式重叠。本月，特朗普先生因性侵犯和诽谤 E · 让 · 卡罗尔(他对判决提出上诉)而被判有罪。 He may soon owe more than the $5m the jury ordered him to pay, as Ms Carroll’s lawyer is asking for new damages stemming from Mr Trump’s doubling-down at an appearance on CNN the day after the verdict. 他可能很快就会欠下陪审团要求他支付的500万美元以上，因为卡罗尔女士的律师正在要求特朗普先生在判决后第二天出现在 CNN 上的双倍赔偿。 Jail time is a risk, too. Mr Trump became the first former president to be criminally indicted on April 4th when he was charged with 34 counts of falsifying business records in a Manhattan courtroom. 坐牢也很危险。4月4日，特朗普先生成为第一位被刑事起诉的前总统，他被指控在曼哈顿法庭上伪造34项商业记录。 The indictment involves an alleged cover-up, just before the 2016 election, of payments to hide alleged trysts with Stephanie Clifford, an adult-film actress (also known as Stormy Daniels) and Karen McDougal, a model. 起诉书涉及一项涉嫌在2016年大选之前隐瞒与成人电影女演员斯蒂芬妮 · 克利福德(Stephanie Clifford)和模特凯伦 · 麦克杜格尔(Karen McDougal)的所谓幽会费用的指控。 According to Alvin Bragg, the Manhattan district attorney, Mr Trump illegally concealed hush-money cheques to Mmes Clifford and McDougal as well as to Dino Sajudin, a former doorman at Trump Tower who allegedly knew about a child Mr Trump had fathered out of wedlock. 曼哈顿地区检察官阿尔文•布拉格(Alvin Bragg)表示，特朗普先生非法隐瞒了给克利福德女士和麦克杜格尔以及迪诺•萨朱丁(Dino Sajudin)的封口费支票。萨朱丁曾是特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的门卫，据称他知道特朗普先生私生了一个孩子。 On May 23rd the judge in The People of the State of New York v Donald J Trump announced that the trial will begin on March 25th 2024, two months into primary season. 5月23日，纽约州人民诉唐纳德 · J · 特朗普一案的法官宣布，审判将于2024年3月25日开始，距离初选还有两个月。 The Republican front-runner will therefore be campaigning in 15 states for Super Tuesday delegates three weeks before standing trial in New York and, as proceedings begin, preparing to woo voters in about 20 more states. 因此，在纽约受审前三周，这位共和党领先者将在15个州竞选超级星期二代表，随着诉讼程序的开始，他还将准备在另外20个州争取选民。 Mr Trump could serve up to four years in prison for each of the 34 counts. But few first-time offenders on these charges are put behind bars. And some legal experts have doubts about Mr Bragg’s strategy. 特朗普先生可能会因这34项罪名中的每一项服刑4年。但这些罪名的初犯很少被关进监狱。一些法律专家对布拉格先生的策略表示怀疑。 Falsifying records is a misdemeanour under New York law; turning those charges into felonies requires piggybacking them on another crime. 根据纽约法律，伪造记录是一种轻罪; 将这些指控转化为重罪需要将它们与另一项罪行相提并论。 Mr Trump’s attention may be further divided in the primaries—and, if he prevails, in the general election—by indictments in other criminal matters. Georgia Republicans hold their primary on March 12th. 特朗普先生的注意力可能会在初选中进一步被其他刑事案件的起诉分散ーー如果他获胜的话，也可能在大选中被分散。乔治亚州的共和党人在3月12日举行初选。 By then, Mr Trump may be preparing for a trial focused on allegations that he sought to swing the Peach State in his favour after the 2020 election. 到那时，特朗普先生可能正在准备一场审判，这场审判的焦点是他试图在2020年大选后让桃州对他有利的指控。 A year ago, a special grand jury began considering evidence that Mr Trump and his allies may have made “unlawful attempts to disrupt the administration of the 2020 elections”. 一年前，一个特别大陪审团开始考虑特朗普先生及其盟友可能“非法企图破坏2020年大选管理”的证据。 The former president sought help from Brad Raffensperger, Georgia’s secretary of state, to “find” nearly 12,000 votes to reverse Joe Biden’s victory there. 这位前总统向格鲁吉亚国务卿布拉德•拉芬斯伯格(Brad Raffensperger)寻求帮助，以“找到”近1.2万张选票，逆转乔•拜登(Joe Biden)在格鲁吉亚的胜利。 The probe has also looked into the Trump team’s efforts to recruit a fake group of electors to present to the vice-president, Mike Pence, when he counted electoral votes on January 6th. 调查还调查了特朗普团队招募假选民的行为，以便在副总统迈克 · 彭斯(Mike Pence)1月6日清点选举人票时呈现给他。 Fani Willis, the Fulton County district attorney, appears ready to move forward with indictments over the summer. The head of the special grand jury said in February that she and her fellow jurors recommended charges for as many as a dozen people—including, she hinted, Mr Trump. 富尔顿县地方检察官法尼•威利斯(Fani wilis)似乎已准备好在今年夏天提出起诉。今年2月，特别大陪审团团长表示，她和其他陪审员建议对多达12人提出指控，其中包括她暗示的特朗普。 Ms Willis will submit evidence to a regular grand jury in late July. 威利斯女士将在七月下旬向常规大陪审团提交证据。 Indictments are “highly likely” to appear in August (which is when the first primary debate is scheduled), says Ryan Goodman, of New York University, but the case may be “tied up in pre-trial litigation” for some time. 纽约大学(New York University)的瑞安•古德曼(Ryan Goodman)表示，起诉书“极有可能”出现在8月份(预选辩论定于8月份举行) ，但此案可能会“在审前诉讼中搁置一段时间”。 The Department of Justice has been gathering evidence on two sets of similarly serious potential charges. Both are in the hands of Jack Smith, the special counsel appointed by Merrick Garland, the attorney-general, in November. 司法部一直在收集两组同样严重的潜在指控的证据。两者都掌握在总检察长梅里克•加兰(Merrick Garland)去年11月任命的特别检察官杰克•史密斯(Jack Smith)手中。 Mr Smith is investigating Mr Trump’s efforts to overturn the 2020 election and his role in the January 6th insurrection. Last month Mr Pence testified before a grand jury in this probe. 史密斯先生正在调查特朗普先生推翻2020年大选的努力以及他在1月6日起义中所扮演的角色。上个月，彭斯先生在大陪审团面前作证。 And Mr Smith appears poised to charge Mr Trump in connection with troves of classified documents the former president removed from the White House and brought to Mar-a-Lago, his Florida home. 史密斯似乎准备指控特朗普与这位前总统从白宫拿走的大量机密文件有关，这些文件被带到了他位于佛罗里达州的家乡 Mar-a-Lago。 After a few months’ delay from a federal district-court judge’s decision to appoint a “special master” to sift through the documents, in December an appeals court put an end to the hold-up and delivered all the files to Mr Smith. He seems to have broadened his sights. 联邦地区法院法官决定任命一位“特别法官”来筛选文件，这一决定推迟了几个月之后，12月上诉法院终止了拖延，并将所有文件交给了史密斯先生。他似乎开阔了视野。 He recently issued subpoenas looking into Mr Trump’s business dealings with seven foreign countries stretching back to 2017. The new line of inquiry could be spurred by an attempt to explain why Mr Trump took all those files with him when he left the White House. 他最近发出传票，调查特朗普先生从2017年开始与7个国家的商业往来。试图解释为什么特朗普先生离开白宫时带走了所有这些文件，这可能会激发新的调查路线。 Joyce Vance, a law professor at the University of Alabama and a former US attorney, predicts charges in the documents case “before the summer vacation season hits”. 阿拉巴马大学法学教授、前联邦检察官乔伊斯•万斯(Joyce Vance)预计，“在暑假季节到来之前”，文件案将面临指控。 At every turn, Mr Trump has condemned investigators for unfairly targeting him. In a letter to Mr Garland on May 23rd, his lawyers accused Mr Smith of bias. 特朗普先生每次都谴责调查人员不公平地针对他。在5月23日写给 Garland 先生的信中，他的律师指控 Smith 先生有偏见。 “No President of the United States has ever, in the history of our country, been baselessly investigated in such an outrageous and unlawful fashion,” they write, before requesting a meeting with the attorney-general to discuss the “injustice that is being perpetrated by your Special Counsel”. 他们写道，“在我国历史上，从未有任何一位美国总统以如此骇人听闻和非法的方式接受过毫无根据的调查。”之后，他们要求与司法部长会面，讨论“你们的特别顾问正在犯下的不公正行为”。 The accumulation of cases against Mr Trump could yet hurt him. But, so far, their impact among Republicans has been quite the opposite. It has fired them up, not led them to say: “You’re fired!” ■ 针对特朗普先生的案件的积累可能会伤害到他。但是，到目前为止，他们对共和党人的影响恰恰相反。这激怒了他们，而不是让他们说: “你被解雇了!”￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com Stay on top of American politics with Checks and Balance , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter, which examines the state of American democracy and the issues that matter to voters. You can read other articles about the elections of 2024 and follow along as we track shifts in Joe Biden’s approval rating . 通过《检查与平衡》(Checks and Balance)了解美国政治，这是我们的每周订阅时事通讯，探讨美国民主政体的状况以及对选民至关重要的问题。你可以阅读有关2024年大选的其他文章，并跟随我们跟踪乔•拜登(Joe Biden)支持率的变化。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/how-donald-trumps-trials-and-the-republican-primary-will-intersect 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/how-donald-trumps-trials-and-the-republican-primary-will-intersect 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Solidarity snips 团结一致 Vasectomies rose by 29% in the three months after the end of Roe 在 Roe 结束后的三个月内，输精管切除术增加了29% Brothers are doing it for themselves 兄弟们都是为了自己 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 D R DOUG STEIN estimates that he has performed around 50,000 vasectomy procedures. He has been practising urology for 40 years, but still, achieving that impressive tally has meant “a lot of sunny Saturdays in windowless rooms hovering over scrotum”, he explains. DOUG STEIN 医生估计他已经做了大约50,000例输精管结扎手术。他从事泌尿外科已有40年，但他解释说，实现这一令人印象深刻的成绩意味着“在没有窗户的房间里度过大量阳光灿烂的周六，在阴囊上空盘旋”。 Dr Stein’s experience and reputation, built up over the decades, make him a popular choice for Floridian men looking to get the snip. But in the summer of 2022 demand for his services suddenly surged. 斯泰因博士的经验和声誉，建立了几十年，使他成为一个受欢迎的选择，佛罗里达州的男人希望得到剪刀。但在2022年夏天，对他的服务需求突然激增。 On June 24th last year the Supreme Court issued its ruling in the case of Dobbs v Jackson Women’s Health Organisation , reversing its decision in Roe v Wade , and allowing states to ban abortion. Dr Stein saw registrations from potential vasectomy patients almost triple the next week. 去年6月24日，最高法院对多布斯诉杰克逊妇女健康组织案作出裁决，推翻了罗伊诉韦德案的裁决，允许各州禁止堕胎。Stein 医生发现，潜在的输精管结扎患者的登记数在下周几乎增加了三倍。 It wasn’t just interest in the procedure that soared. Data on insurance claims from Komodo Health, a health-care-technology company, shows that in the second half of 2022 vasectomy rates across America were far higher than in previous years. Accounting for previous trends, The Economist calculates that the Dobbs ruling was associated with a 17% increase in procedures in the six months after the ruling, and a 29% increase between July and September. 不仅仅是对手术的兴趣激增。来自医疗保健技术公司科莫多健康公司的保险索赔数据显示，2022年下半年，美国输精管结扎率远远高于前几年。考虑到以前的趋势，《经济学人》计算出，多布斯案的裁决与裁决后六个月内程序增加17% 有关，与7月至9月间程序增加29% 有关。 The number of vasectomies has been on the rise. Between 2017 and 2021, the rate at which surgeries were performed increased by an average of 4% each year. 输精管切除术的数量一直在增加。从2017年到2021年，手术率以每年平均4% 的速度增长。 But the number of American men who report having had the procedure is lower than it was 20 years ago (and vasectomy rates still lag far behind rates of tubal ligation, the more invasive equivalent for women). 但是报告说做过输精管结扎手术的美国男性人数比20年前要少(输精管结扎手术的比率仍然远远落后于输卵管结扎手术，输卵管结扎手术对于女性来说更具侵入性)。 In 2002 national health surveys estimated that 6.9% of the male population aged 18-45 had been snipped. The most recent round of surveys, carried out between 2017 and 2019, put the figure at 5.4%. 2002年的全国健康调查估计，在18-45岁的男性人口中，有6.9% 的人被切除了阴茎。2017年至2019年进行的最新一轮调查显示，这一数字为5.4% 。 We estimate that around 20,000 extra men chose to undergo the short, mostly painless, surgery between July and December 2022. Normally, the number of procedures peaks towards the end of the year, when patients are more likely to have reached their insurance deductible (although this is probably overstated in our data, which do not capture vasectomies paid for in cash). 我们估计，在2022年7月至12月期间，约有20,000名额外的男性选择接受这种短暂的、大多无痛的手术。正常情况下，手术次数在年底达到峰值，那时患者更有可能达到他们的保险扣除额(尽管我们的数据可能夸大了这一点，这并不包括以现金支付的输精管切除术)。 Surgery rates also get a boost in March, which some urologists market as “vasectomy season”, a time when men can spend the day or two needed for recovery from the procedure watching March Madness basketball. 手术率在3月份也有所提高，一些泌尿科医生将3月份称为“输精管结扎季”，男性在这个季节可以花一两天时间观看“疯狂三月”(March Madness)篮球赛。 The bump in vasectomies following Dobbs could be seen in 46 states. The rise was larger in states with “trigger bans”, where abortion was severely limited right after the ruling. There, the average increase between July and September was 41%, compared with 26% elsewhere. 在46个州可以看到多布斯的输精管切除术后的肿块。在实行“触发禁令”的州，堕胎率的上升幅度更大，这些州在法院裁决后立即严格限制堕胎。在那里，7月至9月的平均增长率为41% ，而其它地区为26% 。 In Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Tennessee, Texas and Utah rates rose by more than 40%. 在亚利桑那州、佛罗里达州、乔治亚州、田纳西州、德克萨斯州和犹他州，这一比率上升了40% 以上。 As well as being clustered in more conservative states, these new post- Dobbs patients also tended to be younger than the normal vasectomy candidate. Data from Komodo show that, across the country, there was a small but consistent drop in the average age of patients in the second half of 2022. In Dr Stein’s practice, the number of childless men under 30 who opted for the procedure has increased by around 50% since the ruling. 除了聚集在更为保守的州，这些新的多布斯后患者也倾向于比正常的输精管结扎术候选人更年轻。来自科莫多的数据显示，在全国范围内，2022年下半年患者的平均年龄有小幅但持续的下降。在 Stein 博士的实践中，自从这项裁决以来，30岁以下选择手术的无子女男性的数量增加了50% 左右。 What is it about restricting abortion access that has driven men to the operating table? Among his patients who reported that they were motivated by Dobbs , Dr Stein says they tended to cite one of three reasons. Some worried that, without access to abortion, they lacked a genuine backup if their primary contraception method failed—vasectomy has a success rate of more than 99%. 为什么限制堕胎会把男人逼上手术台？Stein 博士说，在那些声称自己是被 Dobbs 激励的病人中，他们倾向于列举三个原因中的一个。一些人担心，由于没有堕胎的机会，如果他们的主要避孕方法失败，他们就会缺乏真正的后援ーー输精管结扎术的成功率超过99% 。 Others, who had been considering the procedure for a while, were apparently spurred by a concern that vasectomy could be outlawed next. A final set of men saw their surgery as an act of solidarity with women. 其他一些已经考虑了一段时间的人，显然是受到了输精管结扎术可能下一步被取缔的担忧的刺激。最后一组男性认为他们的手术是与女性团结一致的行为。 Vasectomy often represents a sacrifice. Like any surgery, it involves recovery time and risk of complications, however small. And for many men there are also misconceptions and concerns about how the procedure might affect their sense of masculinity. 输精管结扎通常意味着牺牲。像任何手术一样，它涉及恢复时间和并发症的风险，无论风险有多小。对于许多男人来说，他们也有误解和担忧，担心这个过程会影响他们的男子气概。 But making the sacrifice lifts the burden of responsibility for contraception from women. Studies have shown that high rates of vasectomy tend to go hand in hand with gender equality. Overturning Roe v Wade has been a brutal blow for women’s rights in America. The rise in vasectomies may be one very small consolation. ■ 但是做出这样的牺牲会减轻女性避孕的责任。研究表明，高比例的输精管结扎往往与性别平等齐头并进。推翻罗伊诉韦德案是对美国妇女权利的残酷打击。输精管切除术的增加可能是一个非常小的安慰。￭ Stay on top of American politics with Checks and Balance , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter, which examines the state of American democracy and the issues that matter to voters. 通过《检查与平衡》(Checks and Balance)了解美国政治，这是我们的每周订阅时事通讯，探讨美国民主政体的状况以及对选民至关重要的问题。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/vasectomies-rose-by-29-in-the-three-months-after-the-end-of-roe 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/vasectomies-rose-by-29-in-the-three-months-after-the-end-of-roe 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The doom loop 末日循环 Downtown San Francisco is at a tipping-point 旧金山市中心正处于一个临界点 The city faces several crises, but one stands out 这个城市面临着几个危机，但有一个突出 May 25th 2023 | San Francisco 2023年5月25日 | 旧金山 M ANY IMAGES have symbolised San Francisco over the years. Fog enveloping the Golden Gate Bridge. Hippies tuning in and dropping out on Haight Street. Tents lining the pavement. These days, a “Retail for lease” sign in a vacant storefront seems appropriate. 多年来，许多图片都是旧金山的象征。雾笼罩着金门大桥。嬉皮士们在 Haight Street 打听消息。人行道两边是帐篷。如今，在一个空置的店面上挂一个“零售出租”的牌子似乎是合适的。 San Francisco itself has become a symbol, too, though what it represents depends on your politics. It is a hub of technological innovation or a bastion of inequality; a laboratory for the country’s most progressive policies or a fief of the radical left. 旧金山本身也已成为一个象征，尽管它代表什么取决于你的政治立场。它既是技术创新的中心，也是不平等的堡垒; 既是国家最进步政策的实验室，也是激进左派的领地。 No mid-size American city—San Francisco has fewer people than Indianapolis—has had a bigger effect on global culture or financial markets. 旧金山的人口比印第安纳波利斯少，没有一个美国中型城市对全球文化或金融市场产生过更大的影响。 But with stardom comes scrutiny. When you’re famous, everyone likes to kick you when you’re down, says Marisa Rodriguez, of the Union Square Alliance, the business-improvement district for downtown’s luxury shopping area. 但随着明星地位的提升，审查也随之而来。联合广场联盟(Union Square Alliance)的玛丽莎•罗德里格斯(Marisa Rodriguez)表示，当你出名时，每个人都喜欢在你情绪低落时踢你一脚。联合广场联盟是市中心奢侈品购物区的商业改善区。 Local and national media are publishing obituaries for the city. Local officials decry the coverage, but they also admit that something is deeply wrong. 当地和全国性的媒体都在为这座城市发布讣告。地方官员谴责这种报道，但他们也承认，有些事情是非常错误的。 “San Francisco has had what felt like an endless, year-after-year boom,” says Aaron Peskin, president of the Board of Supervisors, the city council. “And now the bubble really burst.” 旧金山市议会(city council)监事会（美国中西部及东部各州）主席亚伦•佩斯金(aaronpeskin)表示: “感觉上，旧金山经历了一场持续不断、年复一年的繁荣。”。“现在泡沫真的破灭了。” There are two groups of problems. The first is characterised by homelessness, drug overdoses and property crime. Nearly 7,800 people are homeless in San Francisco, slightly fewer than in 2019, but higher than at any other time the city has counted since at least 2005. 有两类问题。第一类是无家可归、吸毒过量和财产犯罪。旧金山有近7800人无家可归，比2019年略低，但比该市至少自2005年以来统计的任何时候都要高。 Local leaders point to Los Angeles or Seattle as proof that theirs is not the only pricey west-coast metro area unable to care for its vulnerable citizens. That is small consolation. All three cities have some of the highest rates of homelessness in the country. The difference is that San Francisco is more densely populated. Nearly 42,000 homeless people live in Los Angeles, but in neighbourhoods across the sprawling city, from Skid Row to Venice Beach. 当地领导人指出，洛杉矶或西雅图证明，他们不是唯一无法照顾弱势公民的昂贵的西海岸都市地区。这算是小小的安慰。这三个城市的无家可归率都是全国最高的。不同之处在于旧金山的人口密度更大。近42,000名无家可归者居住在洛杉矶，但是居住在从贫民窟到威尼斯海滩的城市周围。 A high share of San Francisco’s rough sleepers are in a single neighbourhood, the Tenderloin, next to downtown. 旧金山很大一部分露宿者都住在临近市中心的田德隆(Tenderloin)一带。 The second problem is financial. “When the pandemic happened, a good portion of San Francisco was able to literally pick up their laptops and go home,” says Rodney Fong of the city’s chamber of commerce. 第二个问题是财务方面的。旧金山商会的 Rodney Fong 说: “当流感大流行发生时，旧金山的大部分地区都能够拿起笔记本电脑回家了。”。 The University of Toronto has been measuring pandemic recovery in 63 American downtowns, since March 2020, by comparing mobile-phone use in city centres with pre-pandemic numbers. San Francisco’s recovery ranks last. The office-vacancy rate is nearing 30%, a record high. 自2020年3月以来，多伦多大学一直在测量美国63个市中心的大流行恢复情况，方法是将市中心的手机使用情况与大流行前的数据进行比较。旧金山的复苏排名最后。办公室空置率接近30% ，创历史新高。 These woes could spread beyond the city centre. Downtown generated at least 75% of the city’s GDP in 2021, and city revenues depend on downtown property and business taxes. As that pot of money shrinks—property taxes paid by offices could decline by up to 35% by 2028—the city will not be able to provide the same services. People and firms may leave, perpetuating the cycle. 这些灾难可能会蔓延到市中心以外。2021年，市中心至少创造了该市75% 的 GDP，而该市的财政收入依赖于市中心的房产税和营业税。随着这笔资金的减少(到2028年，写字楼缴纳的房产税可能下降至多35%) ，香港将无法提供同样的服务。人员和公司可能会离开，从而延续这种循环。 The San Francisco Chronicle calls this the city’s potential “doom loop”. 加拿大亚太邮报称之为这座城市潜在的“厄运循环”。 The doom loop is not inevitable, but avoiding it would take investment at a time when the city faces a $780m deficit, almost 6% of the annual budget, over the next two fiscal years. Local officials want the state to prop up the Bay Area subway system, BART , which ferries people downtown, but Gavin Newsom, California’s governor, has to plug a $32bn budget shortfall of his own. “It’s hard when your best-case scenario is bad,” says Ted Egan, the city’s chief economist. 厄运循环并非不可避免，但在未来两个财政年度，纽约将面临7.8亿美元的赤字，几乎相当于年度预算的6% ，避免厄运循环需要投资。地方官员希望加州支持湾区地铁系统(BART) ，该系统将人们送往市中心，但加州州长加文•纽森(Gavin Newsom)必须填补自己320亿美元的预算缺口。纽约市首席经济学家泰德•伊根(Ted Egan)表示: “当你的最佳情况是糟糕的时候，你很难做到这一点。”。 Some things may yet stop the bleeding. The city’s network effects are diminished by the rise of other tech hubs, but remain mighty. Several leading AI startups are based in San Francisco, including Open AI , which created Chat GPT . The Bay Area still gets more venture-capital funding than any other region, though its share of the pie is shrinking. Mr Peskin wants to incentivise firms to convert offices into apartments . But in the meantime, things look grim. Mr Egan says he recently visited a class of Stanford University students who were discussing their post-college plans. “How many of you are moving to San Francisco after you graduate?” he recalls their professor asking. 有些东西可能还会止血。随着其他科技中心的崛起，这座城市的网络效应有所减弱，但仍然强大。一些领先的人工智能初创公司总部设在旧金山，包括创建 ChatGPT 的 OpenAI。旧金山湾区仍然比其他任何地区获得更多的风险投资资金，尽管它在蛋糕中的份额正在缩小。Peskin 先生想要激励公司把办公室改造成公寓。但与此同时，形势看起来很严峻。伊根先生说他最近拜访了一个斯坦福大学的学生班级，他们正在讨论他们的大学毕业后计划。“你们中有多少人毕业后要搬去旧金山?”他记得他们的教授问。 Incredulous, they responded: “Why would anyone do that?” ■ 他们回答说: “为什么会有人这么做?”￭ Stay on top of American politics with Checks and Balance , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter, which examines the state of American democracy and the issues that matter to voters. 通过《检查与平衡》(Checks and Balance)了解美国政治，这是我们的每周订阅时事通讯，探讨美国民主政体的状况以及对选民至关重要的问题。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/downtown-san-francisco-is-at-a-tipping-point 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/downtown-san-francisco-is-at-a-tipping-point 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Drug pricing 药品定价 The push to bring insulin prices down in America 推动美国胰岛素价格下降 But not all patients are able to use the available schemes 但并非所有患者都能使用现有的方案 May 25th 2023 | WASHINGTON, DC 2023年5月25日 | 华盛顿特区 “M OVE TO THE back if you’ve lost your life savings to the drug companies,” shouts a woman walking by your correspondent. A spirited group follows her to the end of a long queue for a Senate hearing on insulin prices on May 10th. “如果你把毕生的积蓄都输给了制药公司，那就搬到后面去吧,”一位从记者身边走过的女士喊道。5月10日，参议院将举行关于胰岛素价格的听证会，一群精力充沛的人跟在她后面，排着长队等待听证会结束。 In the room David Ricks of Eli Lilly, a large American drug firm, testifies that insulin, used to regulate blood-sugar levels for diabetics, is cheap and even free in some instances. 美国大型制药公司礼来(Eli Lilly)的大卫 · 里克斯(David Ricks)在会议室里证实，用于调节糖尿病患者血糖水平的胰岛素很便宜，在某些情况下甚至是免费的。 “If you contact Lilly today, we will ship you a month’s supply at no cost with one question: ‘What’s your address?’” he says. Those dressed in gear with slogans like “Insulin for All” shake their heads in disbelief. “如果你今天与礼来公司联系，我们将免费为你运送一个月的货物，只有一个问题: ‘你的地址是什么？他说。那些身着带有“人人享有胰岛素”标语的服装的人摇头表示难以置信。 Drug companies may be offering cheap insulin, but it is not reaching all patients. 制药公司可能会提供廉价的胰岛素，但并不是所有的病人都能得到。 The high price of drugs is a long-running grievance for Americans—and insulin is a flashpoint, since more than 8m of them depend on it to survive. A standard unit that costs on average $9 in other rich countries sets Americans back $99. A study in 2021 in the Annals of Internal Medicine , a journal, found that 1.3m people skipped or reduced insulin doses due to cost. 高昂的药价是美国人长期以来的不满，而胰岛素是一个引爆点，因为超过800万美国人依赖胰岛素生存。在其他富裕国家，一个标准单位的平均价格为9美元，而美国人的平均价格为99美元。2021年发表在《内科学年鉴》(Annals of Internal Medicine)杂志上的一项研究发现，有130万人由于成本问题而放弃或减少了胰岛素剂量。 According to GoodRx, a company that helps customers find low drug prices, the average cash price of insulin rose by 54% between 2014 and 2019. The price then dropped by 11% between January 2020 and May 2023. Despite the recent dip, insulin prices remain high. 据一家帮助顾客寻找低价药物的公司 GoodRx 称，2014年至2019年间，胰岛素的平均现金价格上涨了54% 。从2020年1月到2023年5月，价格下降了11% 。尽管近期胰岛素价格有所下降，但仍居高不下。 For older patients, the cost is now coming down. The Inflation Reduction Act, one of President Biden’s landmark laws, allows Medicare to negotiate with manufacturers for lower drug prices. 对于老年患者，费用正在下降。作为拜登总统里程碑式的法律之一的《降低通货膨胀法案》 ，允许医疗保险与制造商谈判以降低药品价格。 It also requires companies to pay back Medicare if prices rise faster than inflation, and it capped insulin prices at $35 a month for Medicare. 该法案还要求，如果价格上涨快于通货膨胀，企业必须偿还医疗保险，而且该法案还将医疗保险的胰岛素价格上限定为每月35美元。 The new law seems to have nudged drug companies into offering lower prices for everyone. On March 1st Eli Lilly announced an automatic $35-a-month cap on all insulins for those with private insurance at select pharmacies, and a similar programme for the uninsured. 新法律似乎促使制药公司为所有人提供更低的价格。3月1日，礼来公司宣布，针对那些在特定药店拥有私人保险的人，每月自动限额35美元的所有胰岛素，以及针对没有保险的人的类似计划。 The firm also promised to sell one of its non-branded insulins for $25 a vial, from May 1st. Sanofi, a French drug company, followed suit with a similar deal for one of its insulins, starting next year. Novo Nordisk, a Danish firm, likewise announced lower prices for 2024. 该公司还承诺从5月1日起以每瓶25美元的价格出售一种非品牌胰岛素。法国制药公司赛诺菲(Sanofi)也紧随其后，从明年开始就其一种胰岛素进行了类似的交易。丹麦公司诺和诺德同样宣布2024年降价。 These deals are eye-catching, but when patients turn up at pharmacies, they may find they cannot grab a bargain. Shaina Kasper of T1International, an advocacy group for diabetes patients, is a type-1 diabetic. 这些交易是引人注目的，但当病人出现在药店，他们可能会发现他们不能抓住一个讨价还价。糖尿病患者宣传组织 T1International 的 ShainaKasper 是1型糖尿病患者。 She says she tried to buy Eli Lilly’s non-branded Insulin Lispro, the specific drug available from May 1st for $25. Her pharmacy in Vermont quoted her $90. 她说，她试图购买礼来公司的非品牌胰岛素 Lispro，特定的药物从5月1日起可用25美元。她在佛蒙特州的药房报价90美元。 Perhaps Eli Lilly’s programme needs time to work out the kinks, or the pharmacy charged more on top. But this is not the first time such a scheme has caused problems. For years pharma firms have offered a patchwork of plans to help customers afford insulin and other drugs. 也许礼来公司的项目需要时间来解决问题，或者药房需要收取更高的费用。但这并非该计划首次引发问题。多年来，制药公司为帮助消费者购买胰岛素和其他药物提供了一系列的计划。 Some are for almost anyone, others for the poor or uninsured. But they tend to be difficult for people to access, says Stacie Dusetzina, a drug-pricing expert at Vanderbilt University. 有些是为几乎所有人准备的，有些是为穷人或没有保险的人准备的。但是药品定价专家 Stacie Dusetzina 说，人们很难获得这些范德堡大学。 First patients must be aware that the scheme exists and that they are eligible, which is often unclear. Then they must jump through hoops. Some need applications, doctor’s notes, proof of residence, tax documents and more. 首先，患者必须意识到该计划的存在，并且他们是合格的，这往往是不清楚的。然后他们必须跳过圈。有些需要申请表、医生证明、居住证明、税务文件等等。 Pharmacies must also know about the programme and participate in it. It can be hard to know whom to blame—the drug companies for the faulty deals or the pharmacies for failing to implement them properly. 药房还必须了解这个项目并参与其中。人们可能很难知道该责怪谁——是制药公司造成了交易失误，还是药店未能妥善执行交易。 These programmes can also end at any time. “What the Lord giveth, the Lord can taketh away,” says David Mitchell of Patients For Affordable Drugs, an advocacy organisation for patients. 这些节目也可以随时结束。“上帝给予的，上帝也可以带走,”患者权益倡导组织“平价药物患者”的大卫 · 米切尔说。 That is why Mr Mitchell and others are pushing for laws to lower drug prices rather than relying on a mishmash of special schemes. 这就是为什么米切尔先生和其他人正在推动法律，以降低药物价格，而不是依靠一个混杂的特殊计划。 Some states have given up on waiting. Colorado was the first to pass a cap on insulin, at $100 a month, in 2019. Since then nearly half of states have introduced caps, but these cover only state-regulated health plans. 一些州已经放弃了等待。2019年，科罗拉多州首次通过了每月100美元的胰岛素上限。从那时起，将近一半的州都引入了上限，但这些上限只涵盖了州政府规定的医疗保险计划。 In March Gavin Newsom, the governor of California, announced that he had signed a contract with a manufacturer to make and distribute insulin to Californians for $30. Maine, Michigan and Washington may follow. 今年3月，加利福尼亚州州长加文•纽森(Gavin Newsom)宣布，他已经与一家制造商签署了一份合同，以30美元的价格生产并向加利福尼亚人分发胰岛素。缅因州、密歇根州和华盛顿可能也会效仿。 There are also bills in Congress to tackle insulin prices and increase access to generics. Perhaps insulin’s cost will eventually come down further and become more predictable. ■ 国会也有一些法案来解决胰岛素的价格问题和增加对非专利药的使用。也许胰岛素的成本最终会进一步下降，变得更可预测。￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com Stay on top of American politics with Checks and Balance , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter, which examines the state of American democracy and the issues that matter to voters. 通过《检查与平衡》(Checks and Balance)了解美国政治，这是我们的每周订阅时事通讯，探讨美国民主政体的状况以及对选民至关重要的问题。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/the-push-to-bring-insulin-prices-down-in-america 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/the-push-to-bring-insulin-prices-down-in-america 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The too few and the less proud 少数人和不那么骄傲的人 American policing has changed since George Floyd’s murder 自从乔治 · 弗洛伊德被杀后，美国的治安状况发生了变化 It needs to change further, and be better funded 它需要进一步改变，并获得更好的资金 May 25th 2023 | Minneapolis 2023年5月25日 | 明尼阿波利斯 T ALK WITH Chris Thomsen and Rick Zimmerman, two longtime homicide investigators with the Minneapolis Police Department ( MPD ), and they’ll tell you their job has changed markedly over the past three years. Restrictions now forbid officers from stopping drivers for expired tags or something dangling from a rear-view mirror; those stops often yielded guns, drugs or people evading arrest warrants. 与明尼阿波利斯警察局(MPD)的两名长期凶杀案调查员克里斯 · 汤姆森(Chris Thomsen)和里克 · 齐默尔曼(Rick Zimmerman)交谈，他们会告诉你，在过去三年里，他们的工作发生了显著变化。现在的限制措施禁止警察拦截过期的车牌或悬挂在倒后镜上的东西，这些拦截常常导致枪支、毒品或逃避逮捕令的人。 A chokehold ban and body-worn-camera footage of every interaction mean officers worry that accidental contact with a suspect’s neck during a physical altercation could be grounds for a lawsuit or dismissal. 禁止使用窒息式呼吸器，并且每次交流都有身穿的摄像机镜头，这意味着警官们担心，在发生肢体冲突时意外接触到嫌疑人的脖子，可能会导致诉讼或解雇。 Prosecutors and jurors used to defer to cops’ words in court; now they demand video or audio evidence. 过去，检察官和陪审员在法庭上听从警察的话，现在他们要求提供视频或音频证据。 But talk with Dave Bicking and Emma Pedersen—members of Communities United Against Police Brutality, an activist group—and they will tell you the opposite. The city council vowed to “defund the police”; instead the MPD ’s budget has grown. Police killings, Mr Bicking asserts, “go on at the same rate as always”. The MPD ’s culture, says Ms Pedersen, is “getting worse”. 但是，如果你与社区联合反对过度用武的成员戴夫•比金和艾玛•佩德森交谈，他们会告诉你相反的情况。市议会发誓要“取消对警察的资助”; 相反，市警察局的预算却增加了。比金先生断言，警察杀人事件“一如既往地继续发生”。佩德森表示，MPD 的文化正“变得越来越糟糕”。 These two poles define a roiling debate. Leftists argue that policing has changed far too little since a Minneapolis police officer murdered George Floyd three years ago. Police killings in America rose from 2020 to 2021, and again from 2021 to 2022. Politicians who promised reform have backtracked; changes have been cosmetic. 这两个极点定义了一场激烈的辩论。左派人士认为，自从三年前一名明尼阿波利斯警官谋杀了乔治 · 弗洛伊德以来，警务工作几乎没有什么变化。2020年至2021年，美国警察杀人事件上升，2021年至2022年再次上升。承诺改革的政治家们已经收回了他们的承诺; 改革只是表面上的。 Conservatives argue that public suspicion of police and policy changes driven by progressive politicians have hamstrung law enforcement, leading directly to a rise in violent crime. 保守派认为，公众对警察的怀疑以及进步派政治家推动的政策变化妨碍了执法，直接导致了暴力犯罪的上升。 The consensus that 30 years ago led politicians from both parties to espouse “tough on crime” rhetoric and policies has disappeared. 30年前，两党政治家一致赞成“严厉打击犯罪”的言论和政策，如今这种共识已不复存在。 As in so much else in American life, the centre has not held. 正如美国生活中的许多其他事情一样，中心并不存在。 What is beyond dispute, however, is that big-city departments across the country face shortages. Minneapolis had over 900 officers at the time of Floyd’s murder. As of May 6th it had just 583, well below the 731 required by the city’s charter. 然而，毋庸置疑的是，全国各大城市的部门都面临着供应短缺的问题。Floyd 被杀时，明尼阿波利斯有900多名警官。截至5月6日，只有583架，远低于该市宪章所要求的731架。 Baltimore, which in 2022 had more than 1,000 homicides and non-fatal shootings, lost nearly 157 officers that year, and is short more than 500. Between 2011 and late 2022, the size of Memphis’s police force shrank by nearly one-quarter; some wonder whether that contributed to the widely seen beating death of Tyre Nichols by lowering the department’s hiring and training standards. 巴尔的摩在2022年发生了1000多起谋杀和非致命枪击事件，那一年失去了近157名警官，目前还缺500多名警官。从2011年到2022年末，孟菲斯的警力缩减了近四分之一; 有人怀疑，这是否导致了泰尔 · 尼科尔斯(Tyre Nichols)被殴打致死的广为人知的事件，因为这降低了该部门的招聘和培训标准。 Nationally, between April 1st 2020 and March 31st 2021 (the most recent period for which data are available), resignations rose by 18% and retirements by 45% year-on-year. 在全国范围内，从2020年4月1日到2021年3月31日(有数据可查的最近时期) ，辞职人数同比增加了18% ，退休人数同比增加了45% 。 Some of those departures were expected: the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, passed in 1994 and championed by then-Senator Joe Biden, funded the hiring of tens of thousands of officers, many of whom are now at retirement age. 其中一些人的离职是意料之中的: 1994年通过的《暴力犯罪控制和执法法案》 ，由当时的参议员乔 · 拜登(Joe Biden)倡导，为雇佣数万名警官提供了资金，其中许多人现在已经到了退休年龄。 Though critics now decry that bill for fuelling mass incarceration, at the time 49% of whites, 58% of African-Americans and a majority of the Congressional Black Caucus supported it. 尽管批评人士现在谴责该法案助长了大规模监禁，但当时49% 的白人、58% 的非洲裔美国人和国会黑人核心小组的大多数成员都支持该法案。 A related phenomenon has seen officers transfer from departments in big cities with high crime rates to agencies in wealthier, smaller cities with less crime, a lower cost of living and higher salaries. According to the New York Times , the New York Police Department saw more resignations last year than at any time in the past two decades. At least 14 of the department’s officers moved to Aurora, Colorado; others have accepted $5,000 signing bonuses to move to Florida. 一个相关的现象是，犯罪率较高的大城市的警官被调到犯罪率较低、生活成本较低、工资较高的较富裕、较小城市的机构。据《纽约时报》报道，纽约警察局去年的辞职人数超过了过去20年的任何时候。该部门至少有14名工作人员搬到了科罗拉多州的奥罗拉; 其他人则接受了5000美元的签约奖金，搬到了佛罗里达州。 This leaves departments short-staffed, which means officers have to work more overtime with less supervision; that combination, notes a veteran west-coast officer, leads to “more stress and bad decisions on the street”. 这导致各部门人手不足，这意味着警官们不得不在监督较少的情况下加班; 一位资深西海岸警官指出，这种组合会导致“街头压力更大，做出更糟糕的决定”。 And the more cases that pile up, the harder it gets to solve them: officers lack investigatory time, leads go cold, newer cases assume greater importance. 案件越多，破案就越困难: 警官缺乏调查时间，线索断了，新案子就显得更重要了。 Compounding the problem of mass departures is that hiring has not kept pace: from April 2020 through March 2021 the hiring rate actually declined by 5%. 使大规模离职问题更加复杂的是招聘没有跟上步伐: 从2020年4月到2021年3月，招聘率实际上下降了5% 。 A poll of 10,000 police officers taken in June 2020 found that just under 17% were either “extremely satisfied” or “pleased” to be in law enforcement, and only around 7% would recommend that their child go into it. 2020年6月对10000名警察进行的一项调查发现，只有不到17% 的警察“非常满意”或“满意”在执法部门工作，只有大约7% 的警察建议他们的孩子参加执法。 For that state of affairs many blame a changed national attitude towards police. “It used to be that policing was a job for helpers, it’s honourable,” says one veteran officer. 对于这种状况，许多人将其归咎于国民对警察态度的转变。“过去，维持治安是助手的工作，这是光荣的,”一位资深警官表示。 “Now the story is that policing is an inherently racist institution, and if you go into policing you’re complicit in supporting structures of white racial hegemony.” “现在的情况是，警务工作本身就是一种种族主义制度，如果你从事警务工作，你就是支持白人种族霸权结构的同谋。” Art Acevedo, who headed the Austin, Houston and Miami police departments and is now interim chief in Aurora, Colorado, said that “the push by some elected officials to defund the police…had an impact on recruitment and retention.” That shift in attitudes did not begin with Floyd’s murder: the shooting of Michael Brown, a young black man, by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014 also sparked widespread protests, though Barack Obama’s Justice Department, after an extensive investigation, found the officer’s actions were not “objectively unreasonable”, and declined to press charges. 阿特 · 阿塞韦多(Art Acevedo)是奥斯汀、休斯顿和迈阿密警察局的负责人，现在是科罗拉多州奥罗拉市的临时警察局长。他说，“一些民选官员推动撤销对警察的资助... ... 对警察的招募和留用产生了影响。”这种态度的转变并非始于弗洛伊德被谋杀: 2014年8月，一名警察在密苏里州弗格森枪杀了年轻的黑人男子迈克尔 · 布朗(Michael Brown) ，这也引发了广泛的抗议，尽管巴拉克 · 奥巴马(Barack Obama)的司法部经过广泛调查后发现，这名警察的行为并非“客观上不合理”，并拒绝提出指控。 But Floyd’s death pushed previously fringe positions, such as police defunding and abolition, to the fore. 但是弗洛伊德的去世把之前的边缘立场，如警察撤资和废除，推到了前面。 Peter Moskos, a sociologist and former Baltimore beat cop who now teaches at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said that “pre-George Floyd, reformers would work with the police.” He sees much of the post-Floyd legislation—such as limiting when police can stop drivers, as San Francisco has done, or eliminating most cash bail, as New York has done—as coming from activists who see policing as malign. 社会学家、前巴尔的摩巡警彼得 · 莫斯科斯(Peter Moskos)现在在约翰 · 杰伊刑事司法学院(John Jay College of Criminal Justice)任教，他说: “在乔治 · 弗洛伊德之前，改革者会与警方合作。”他认为，后弗洛伊德时代的许多立法ーー比如限制警察拦截司机的时间(旧金山就是这样做的) ，或者取消大部分的现金保释(纽约就是这样做的)ーー都来自那些认为维持治安是恶意行为的活动人士。 “The idea that you can reform police in opposition to the police is crazy.” “以改革警察来对抗警察的想法是疯狂的。” The public’s appetite for reform seems to be waning. San Francisco’s voters recalled Chesa Boudin, their reformist chief prosecutor; Seattle’s elected a tough-on-crime Republican prosecutor over a far-left candidate. 公众对改革的兴趣似乎正在减弱。旧金山的选民召回了他们的改革派首席检察官切萨•布丹(Chesa Boudin) ; 西雅图选出了一位严厉打击犯罪的共和党检察官，而非一位极左翼候选人。 In late February Ron DeSantis, Florida’s Republican governor, made a pre-presidential-campaign trip to Illinois, New York and Pennsylvania to talk up his tough-on-crime credentials. 今年2月底，佛罗里达州共和党州长罗恩•德桑蒂斯(Ron DeSantis)在总统竞选前访问了伊利诺伊州、纽约州和宾夕法尼亚州，宣传自己在打击犯罪方面的资历。 Perhaps sensing the shifting political winds, the following week Mr Biden disappointed progressives by refusing to veto Congress’s repeal of a crime bill that would have reduced sentences for some offences. 也许是感觉到了政治风向的转变，接下来的一周，拜登先生拒绝否决国会废除一项犯罪法案，该法案本可以减轻某些罪行的刑期，这让进步人士感到失望。 Yet the ground on which police operate has changed. 然而，警察行动的基础已经发生了变化。 Ten years ago, police facing a crime spike might have embarked on a “flood-the-zone” strategy: pour officers into a neighbourhood with a lot of violent crime, and start arresting people and writing tickets to show “zero tolerance”. That strategy will no longer work. 10年前，面临犯罪率飙升的警方可能已经开始采取“洪水淹没区域”战略: 将警察赶到暴力犯罪频发的社区，开始逮捕人们，并开罚单以表明“零容忍”。这种策略将不再奏效。 Some of those arrests will involve displays of force that, thanks to mobile-phone cameras, will end up on social media. 其中一些逮捕将涉及武力展示，由于手机摄像头，最终将出现在社交媒体上。 More importantly, ticketing and bothering law-abiding citizens for jaywalking or drinking a beer on a street corner will turn the community against police, and police need community trust and witnesses’ help to solve crimes. 更重要的是，违反交通规则或在街角喝啤酒而给守法公民开罚单或打扰他们会使社区反对警察，而警察需要社区的信任和证人的帮助来解决犯罪。 Goodness gracious that’s why it’s a mess 天啊，所以才这么乱 People in crime-ridden communities do not say they want to defund or abolish the police. They want better, more accountable policing. That starts with better training. 在犯罪猖獗的社区，人们并没有说他们想要撤销或废除警察。他们想要更好，更负责任的治安。这要从更好的训练开始。 Whereas military officers get four years of training and education in an institution such as West Point or the Naval Academy, police officers get an average of 20 weeks in their academy, often with a few months of field training afterwards. 军官们在西点军校(West Point)或海军学院(Naval Academy)等机构接受四年的培训和教育，而警官们平均在学院学习20周，之后往往还要接受几个月的实地培训。 Military tours in active duty generally comprise a minority of a career officer’s time; many patrol officers spend almost their entire career deployed. 服现役的军事旅行一般只占职业军官时间的一小部分; 许多巡逻军官几乎整个职业生涯都在部署。 In-career training is often cursory: California, for instance, requires officers to undertake just four hours of use-of-force training every two years. 职业培训通常是粗略的: 例如，加利福尼亚州要求军官每两年只接受4小时的使用武力培训。 National training standards are non-existent, largely because America’s police forces, unlike those of most other countries, are decentralised, run at the state and local level. 国家培训标准是不存在的，主要是因为美国的警察部队，不像其他大多数国家，是分散的，运行在州和地方一级。 But better training will require more money, both for its direct costs and to ensure that forces have enough active officers to cover those getting trained. 但是，更好的训练需要更多的资金，不仅要支付直接费用，还要确保部队有足够的现役军官来支付接受训练的军人的费用。 That may be a tough sell. Left-leaning politicians sceptical of police may be unwilling to teach officers how to use violence more effectively, even though, in the long run, it could save lives. 这可能很难让人接受。对警察持怀疑态度的左倾政客可能不愿意教警察如何更有效地使用暴力，尽管从长远来看，暴力可以挽救生命。 A recent study conducted in Cambridge (Massachusetts), Houston and Tucson found that well-trained officers reduced offences in crime hotspots better than officers who received standard police training. 最近在剑桥(马萨诸塞州)、休斯顿和图森进行的一项研究发现，训练有素的警官比接受标准警察培训的警官更能减少犯罪热点地区的犯罪。 But the most important thing police could do to bring down the violent-crime rate is to catch more violent criminals. Nationally, just over half of all murders, and less than half of other violent crimes, go unsolved (see chart). 但是警察能做的降低暴力犯罪率的最重要的事情是抓住更多的暴力罪犯。在全国范围内，超过一半的谋杀案和不到一半的其他暴力犯罪案件没有得到解决(见图表)。 By contrast, more than 95% of murders are solved in South Korea and Japan, as well as 80% in Sweden, 87% in Switzerland and 98% in Finland. 相比之下，超过95% 的谋杀案在韩国和日本破获，80% 在瑞典，87% 在瑞士和98% 在芬兰。 Some departments, recognising that solving murders often requires sifting through massive amounts of data, have begun hiring civilian data analysts, who trawl digital traces while homicide detectives talk to witnesses and chase down leads. 一些部门认识到解决谋杀案往往需要筛选大量的数据，已经开始聘请民用数据分析师，他们在凶杀案侦探与目击者交谈并追查线索时，搜寻数字痕迹。 Others have focused investigative resources on places—trouble tends to occur in remarkably small geographical areas—rather than simply reacting to crimes after they occur. 其他人则把调查资源集中在一些地方(麻烦往往发生在非常小的地理区域) ，而不是仅仅在犯罪发生后才作出反应。 Whatever path departments choose to follow, they will need to hire more people to walk it. That will require young folk who see policing as a desirable, honourable occupation. 无论部门选择走什么样的道路，他们都需要雇佣更多的人来走这条路。这就需要年轻人把维持治安看作是一项令人向往的光荣职业。 And politicians, especially in big, liberal cities, will need to recognise that police have an essential role in keeping the public safe. 政治家们，尤其是那些自由的大城市的政治家们，需要认识到警察在保护公众安全方面起着至关重要的作用。 That does not preclude holding police accountable. 但这并不妨碍追究警察的责任。 Officers, says Jacob Frey, mayor of Minneapolis, “need to be paid more, fired more and trained more”: the first to attract good recruits to a dangerous, necessary job; the second to ensure that those who abuse their badges can be got rid of; and the last to keep them effective. 明尼阿波利斯市市长雅各布•弗雷(Jacob Frey)表示，警官“需要获得更高的薪酬，解雇更多人，并接受更多培训”: 第一，吸引优秀的新人从事危险而必要的工作; 第二，确保那些滥用警徽的人能够被解雇; 最后，确保他们的工作效率。 Police must accept increased scrutiny and oversight. And politicians, argues Michael Shellenberger, an author and activist who ran for governor of California in 2022, need to do more than just promise to fund the police. 警方必须接受更严格的审查和监督。迈克尔 · 谢伦伯格(Michael Shellenberger)是一位作家和活动家，曾在2022年竞选加利福尼亚州州长。他认为，政治家们需要做的不仅仅是承诺资助警察。 They need to make it clear that they are valued, like teachers and firefighters. Yes, “there are some bad actors,” but “it’s a noble profession full of people who want to do the right thing.” ■ 他们需要清楚地表明自己的价值，就像老师和消防员一样。是的，“有一些坏演员”，但“这是一个崇高的职业，充满了想做正确事情的人。”￭ Stay on top of American politics with Checks and Balance , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter, which examines the state of American democracy and the issues that matter to voters. 通过《检查与平衡》(Checks and Balance)了解美国政治，这是我们的每周订阅时事通讯，探讨美国民主政体的状况以及对选民至关重要的问题。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/american-policing-has-changed-since-george-floyds-murder 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/25/american-policing-has-changed-since-george-floyds-murder 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Lexington 列克星敦 DeSantis is a truer believer, if a lesser politician, than Trump ❗ 🔄 The Florida governor aims to take Trump out of Trumpism 这位佛罗里达州州长的目标是让特朗普脱离特朗普主义 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 A S GIVEN VOICE by Donald Trump, American right-wing populism has sounded more like a howl of rage or a whine of self-pity than a rational plan for the country’s future. When he ran for re-election, the Republican Party could not even bring itself to write a platform. 作为唐纳德 · 特朗普的发言人，美国的右派民粹主义听起来更像是愤怒的嚎叫或自怜的哀鸣，而不是对国家未来的理性规划。当他竞选连任时，共和党甚至连一个政纲都写不出来。 “Trumpism” blurred boundaries between his policies and his needs and interests, distinctions that vanished as his obsession with his loss in 2020 consumed his message. Reactive and emotional, Mr Trump has reigned as the id of populism, and that has made him dangerous to democracy. “特朗普主义”模糊了他的政策与他的需求和利益之间的界限，随着他对2020年失利的执念消耗了他传递的信息，这种界限消失了。特朗普先生被动且情绪化，他一直是民粹主义的代表，这使他对民主政体构成了威胁。 Ron DeSantis, the chilly, cerebral governor of Florida, has an outside chance of becoming its superego, and thus dangerous to the Democrats. 罗恩•德桑蒂斯(Ron DeSantis) ，这位冷淡、理性的佛罗里达州州长，有一个极小的机会成为该州的超我，从而对民主党人构成危险。 Mr DeSantis may wind up as just another speed-bump under Mr Trump’s relentless wheels . But more than any other Republican, he has extracted a coherent agenda from the jumble of Trumpian fears and hostilities, pointing the way towards a Trumpism without Trump. 德桑蒂斯先生最终可能只是特朗普先生无情的车轮下的又一个减速带。但与其他任何共和党人相比，他从特朗普的恐惧和敌意中提取出了一个连贯的议程，为没有特朗普的特朗普主义指明了道路。 And if that has worked in Florida—a diverse state and once a political toss-up that has gone solidly Republican under Mr DeSantis—Democrats would be unwise to dismiss its appeal. Mr DeSantis’s zeal for culture war is not a sideline to this potential successor ideology. It is the unifying principle . 而且，如果这种做法在佛罗里达州(一个多元化的州，在德桑蒂斯先生领导下曾经是共和党坚定支持的政治难题)奏效的话，民主党人如果不理睬它的吸引力，将是不明智的。德桑蒂斯先生对文化战争的热情并不是这种潜在的继任者意识形态的副业。这是统一的原则。 The end of the cold war was hard on American conservatism. Anti-communism had served as what the writer William F. Buckley called the “harnessing bias” of the movement. With the Soviet Union gone, old divisions began widening again between libertarians and religious conservatives. 冷战的结束对美国的保守主义打击很大。反共产主义曾被作家威廉 · F · 巴克利(William F. Buckley)称为这场运动的“利用偏见”。随着苏联的解体，自由意志主义者和宗教保守主义者之间的旧的分歧又开始扩大。 Isolationism, protectionism and nativism, conservative strains that retreated at the outbreak of the second world war, began creeping back. 孤立主义、保护主义和本土主义，这些在二战爆发后退却的保守主义倾向，开始悄悄卷土重来。 George W. Bush’s war on terror held them in check for a time, dangling the prospect of another unifying struggle against an ideological foe. But it was not to be. 乔治•布什(George W. Bush)的反恐战争在一段时间内遏制了他们，让他们看到了另一场团结一致对抗意识形态敌人的前景。但事实并非如此。 “If the Vietnam war splintered the Democratic coalition, then the 2003 Iraq war fractured the Republican one,” writes Matthew Continetti in “The Right”, a history of the conservative movement. “如果说越南战争分裂了民主党联盟，那么2003年的伊拉克战争分裂了共和党联盟,”马修•康蒂内蒂(Matthew Continetti)在《右翼》(The Right)一书中写道。 “Conservatism was never the same after the first improvised explosive device detonated in Baghdad.” “在巴格达发生第一起简易爆炸装置爆炸后，保守主义从此彻底改变。” The financial crash further discredited establishment Republicans like the Bushes, with their contentment with trade, immigration and Wall Street. The ferocity of the Tea Party’s opposition to President Barack Obama obscured its comparable disdain for establishment Republicans. 金融危机进一步败坏了布什等共和党建制派的名声，他们满足于贸易、移民和华尔街。茶党对巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统的强烈反对，掩盖了它对共和党建制派同样的蔑视。 Then came Donald Trump. He rolled over Jeb Bush with a message of contempt for elites and the institutions they dominated. They were all corrupt, dispensing money and privilege to insiders, and only he could fix it. 然后是唐纳德 · 特朗普。他对杰布•布什(Jeb Bush)表达了蔑视精英阶层及其统治的机构的态度。他们都很腐败，向内部人员分发金钱和特权，只有他能解决这个问题。 Mr DeSantis shares Mr Trump’s lack of humility but not his lack of discipline and understanding of government. A Harvard lawyer who served in Iraq and then for three terms in Congress, Mr DeSantis is the thinking Republican’s populist. 德桑蒂斯先生和特朗普先生一样缺乏谦逊，但他并不缺乏纪律和对政府的理解。德桑蒂斯先生是一位哈佛大学的律师，曾在伊拉克服役，后来在国会任职三届，他是一位思维敏捷的共和党民粹主义者。 He shares with progressives a conviction about the primacy of “narrative” in entrenching power. 他与进步人士一样，坚信“叙事”在巩固权力中占据首要地位。 But he argues that the left has taken control of America’s core narratives through undemocratic means, by seizing cultural and corporate institutions, and is telling stories that warp young minds and curtail freedom. 但他认为，左派通过非民主的手段，通过夺取文化和企业机构，控制了美国的核心叙事，他们讲述的故事扭曲了年轻人的思想，限制了自由。 America’s institutions are not just corrupt; they are insidiously corrupting. 美国的机构不仅腐败，而且还在暗中腐败。 More clearly than Mr Trump, Mr DeSantis has defined an ideological foe to rally conservatives and provided them with a plan to fight back. 比特朗普先生更清楚的是，德桑蒂斯先生已经定义了一个意识形态上的敌人来团结保守派，并为他们提供了一个反击计划。 In his telling, leftist ideology has infiltrated the federal bureaucracy, public schools, universities, news media and major corporations in much the way conservatives once feared communism had. 按照他的说法，左翼意识形态已经渗透到联邦官僚机构、公立学校、大学、新闻媒体和大型企业中，就像保守派曾经担心的共产主义那样。 “Because most major institutions in American life have become thoroughly politicised, protecting people from the imposition of leftist ideology requires more than just defeating leftist measures in the legislative arena,” Mr DeSantis writes in his memoir, “The Courage to Be Free”. 德桑蒂斯先生在他的回忆录《获得自由的勇气》中写道: “因为美国生活中的大多数主要机构已经完全政治化，保护人们免受左派意识形态的影响需要的不仅仅是在立法领域击败左派措施。”。 Mr DeSantis appears to be channelling an adviser he cites elsewhere in his memoir, Christopher Rufo, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute who has called for “laying siege to the institutions”. 德桑蒂斯先生似乎正在引用他在回忆录其他地方引用的顾问克里斯托弗•鲁福(Christopher Rufo)的话。鲁福是曼哈顿研究所(Manhattan Institute)高级研究员，呼吁“围攻金融机构”。 In one display of this besieging mentality, Mr DeSantis appointed Mr Rufo to the board of trustees of New College , a progressive school in the Florida state system, to help change its leadership and curriculum. Mr Rufo quickly moved to eliminate diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Students have protested against the changes. 德桑蒂斯先生任命鲁福先生为新学院的董事会，这是佛罗里达州的一所进步学校，以帮助改变其领导层和课程。鲁福先生迅速采取行动消除多样性、公平性和包容性倡议。学生们对这些变化提出了抗议。 But they will graduate and move on, and in time Mr DeSantis’s preferred narratives will probably take hold. 但是他们将毕业并继续前进，到那时，德桑蒂斯先生偏爱的叙事方式可能会站稳脚跟。 Every day he rewrites the book 他每天都重写这本书 Opportunistic rather than ideological, Mr Trump has been attacking Mr DeSantis from the left on entitlements (saying that Mr DeSantis wanted to cut them), from the right on taxes (that he wanted to raise them) and from the left again on abortion (Mr DeSantis’s six-week ban is “too harsh”). Mr Trump has even risen to the defence of corporations that Mr DeSantis has accused of abetting leftist indoctrination. Mr DeSantis has been calling Mr Trump a loser, though without naming him. “We must reject the culture of losing that has infected our party in recent years,” the governor said in a recent speech in Iowa. 机会主义而非意识形态，特朗普先生一直从左翼攻击德桑蒂斯先生的福利(说德桑蒂斯先生想削减福利) ，从右翼攻击税收(说他想提高税收) ，再从左翼攻击堕胎(德桑蒂斯先生六周的禁令“太严厉”)。特朗普先生甚至站出来为被德桑蒂斯先生指责为教唆左翼思想灌输的公司辩护。德桑蒂斯先生一直称特朗普先生为失败者，尽管没有点名。“我们必须摒弃近年来影响我们党的失败文化,”这位州长最近在爱荷华州发表演讲时表示。 Yet this creates a box for Mr DeSantis: will he say outright that Mr Trump lost the 2020 election? 然而，这为德桑蒂斯先生创造了一个盒子: 他会直接说特朗普先生输掉了2020年的大选吗？ Mr DeSantis is a glowering glad-hander. He comes off as humourless. Should he win the nomination, Democrats think his bullying demeanour and culture-warring will repel suburban and independent voters. That may be right. 德桑蒂斯先生是个怒目而视的讨好者。他看起来很没幽默感。如果他赢得提名，民主党人认为他的恃强凌弱的行为和文化冲突将使郊区和独立选民感到厌恶。也许是这样。 But the governor, a quick study, may overcome the klutzy start to his campaign (snafus marred its launch on Twitter) and grow as a candidate. At 44, he would accentuate Joe Biden’s seniority. 但是州长，一个快速的研究，可能克服笨拙的开始，他的竞选(混乱破坏了它在 Twitter 上的启动) ，并成长为一个候选人。44岁时，他会强调乔•拜登(Joe Biden)的资历。 His high job-approval rating in Florida suggests voters there have not concluded he is an extremist. Given a microphone to voice his own narrative, Mr DeSantis has a knack for making his resistance to progressives on matters such as gender sound like common sense. 他在佛罗里达州的高支持率表明，那里的选民还没有得出他是一个极端分子的结论。德桑蒂斯先生拥有一个麦克风来表达他自己的叙述，他有一种诀窍，可以让他在性别等问题上对进步人士的抵制听起来像是常识。 For Democrats and their real influence over cultural institutions, the story of Ron DeSantis may not have a happy ending. ■ 对于民主党人和他们对文化机构的真正影响力来说，罗恩 · 德桑蒂斯的故事可能不会有一个圆满的结局。￭ Read more from Lexington, our columnist on American politics: 阅读更多来自列克星敦，我们的美国政治专栏作家: It turns out that Democrats bus migrants, too (May 18th) 事实证明，民主党人也开公共汽车接送移民(5月18日) Donald Trump has become more dangerous (May 11th) 唐纳德 · 特朗普变得更加危险(5月11日) What walking from Washington to New York reveals about America (May 4th) 从华盛顿步行到纽约揭示了美国(5月4日) Also: How the Lexington column got its name 还有: 列克星敦专栏是如何得名的 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/24/desantis-is-a-truer-believer-if-a-lesser-politician-than-trump 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/05/24/desantis-is-a-truer-believer-if-a-lesser-politician-than-trump 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

United States 美国 Sections 部分 Asia 亚洲 The Americas 美国 Mexico could elect its first female president next year 墨西哥明年可能选出首位女总统 The race to succeed AMLO :: Will Claudia Sheinbaum be overshadowed by Andrés Manuel López Obrador? 继任者的竞争: 克劳迪娅 · 辛鲍姆会被洛佩斯·奥布拉多尔盖过风头吗？ Lula wants to purge Brazil of Jair Bolsonaro’s influence ❗ 🔄 A power struggle :: He faces resistance from evangelicals, gun owners and big tech 权力斗争: 他面临来自福音派、枪支拥有者和大型科技公司的抵制。 United States 美国 Sections 部分 Asia 亚洲

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The race to succeed AMLO 继任反洗钱组织的竞赛 Mexico could elect its first female president next year 墨西哥明年可能选出首位女总统 Will Claudia Sheinbaum be overshadowed by Andrés Manuel López Obrador? ❗ 🔄 May 23rd 2023 | Mexico City 2023年5月23日 | 墨西哥城 O N JUNE 4TH voters in the state of Mexico, the most populous in the country of the same name, will elect a new governor. The vote is widely seen as a testing ground for general elections due next year. Delfina Gómez, a former education minister, is polling far ahead of her rival. 6月4日，墨西哥州的选民将选出一位新州长。墨西哥州是同名国家中人口最多的州。人们普遍认为，这次选举是明年大选的一个试验场。前教育部长德尔菲娜•戈麦斯(Delfina Gómez)的民调结果远远领先于她的竞争对手。 If she wins, it will suggest her party, Morena, is well positioned for next year’s polls. Morena was founded by Andrés Manuel López Obrador, Mexico’s leader. He cannot run again. 如果她获胜，这将表明她的政党莫雷纳(Morena)在明年的民调中处于有利地位。莫雷纳是由墨西哥领导人洛佩斯·奥布拉多尔创立的。他不能再跑了。 As a result the presidential vote next year could see another woman win big: Claudia Sheinbaum, the mayor of Mexico City. She would be the first female head of state. But she could struggle to shake off the legacy of Mr López Obrador, her mentor. 因此，明年的总统大选可能会看到另一位女性大获全胜: 墨西哥城市长克劳迪娅 · 辛鲍姆(Claudia Sheinbaum)。她将成为第一位女性国家元首。但她可能很难摆脱她的导师洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生的遗产。 When Mr López Obrador won the election in 2018, with 53% of the vote, it appeared to mark a sea-change in Mexican politics. For decades the country had been dominated by the Institutional Revolutionary Party ( PRI ), a centre-right party that ruled Mexico for 71 years until 2000. Opposition had been provided by the National Action Party ( PAN ), a conservative group that held the presidency for two terms from 2000 to 2012, and the Party of the Democratic Revolution ( PRD ), a left-wing outfit. By 2018 many voters fed up with the status quo felt hopeful that Mr López Obrador could deliver change. He promised to end corruption, reduce inequality and tackle gang violence. 当 López Obrador 先生以53% 的得票率赢得2018年大选时，这似乎标志着墨西哥政治发生了翻天覆地的变化。几十年来，墨西哥一直由制度革命党(PRI)统治，这是一个中右翼政党，在2000年之前统治了墨西哥71年。国家行动党(PAN)和左翼组织民主革命党(PRD)提供了反对意见。前者是一个保守派团体，从2000年到2012年担任了两届总统。到2018年，许多厌倦了现状的选民对洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生能够带来改变抱有希望。他承诺结束腐败，减少不平等，打击帮派暴力。 Once in power Mr López Obrador began executing his political project, a contradictory mix of policies he grandly calls the “Fourth Transformation”. They combine a penchant for 1970s-style nationalism with fiscal hawkishness. 洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生一上台就开始执行他的政治计划，这是一个自相矛盾的政策组合，他盛大地称之为“第四次转变”。他们将上世纪70年代式的民族主义倾向与财政上的鹰派立场结合起来。 Although the president’s rhetoric sounds left-wing, his policies are a more complicated mix. He did away with Mexico’s health-care system for the uninsured, scrapped child-care subsidies for working mothers and canned a conditional cash programme for the poor. 尽管总统的言论听起来像是左翼，但他的政策是一个更复杂的组合。他废除了墨西哥为没有医疗保险的人提供的医疗保健系统，取消了对有工作的母亲的儿童保育补贴，并取消了针对穷人的有条件现金计划。 His main instinct is statism. The president boosted the state oil and electricity companies at the expense of clean energy, including by building a new oil refinery. He also wants to nationalise Mexico’s lithium. 他的主要本能是国家主义。总统以牺牲清洁能源为代价提振了国有石油和电力公司，包括建造了一座新的炼油厂。他还希望将墨西哥的锂矿国有化。 He handed sweeping power to the armed forces, and has tried to undermine the Supreme Court and the electoral body. On May 19th he expropriated a railway from Grupo México, a mining company. 他把大权交给武装部队，并试图破坏最高法院和选举机构。5月19日，他没收了墨西哥矿业公司 Grupo 的一条铁路。 On May 24th Citigroup, an American bank, announced it would abandon a deal to sell Banamex, a Mexican retail bank, to Grupo México. 5月24日，花旗集团，一家美国银行，宣布放弃将墨西哥零售银行 Banamex 出售给墨西哥集团的交易。 It was unclear if Grupo México had pulled out because of the expropriation, or if Citibank had decided not to go ahead because of frequent comments made by the president in public about the sale. 目前尚不清楚，墨西哥集团是因为此次收购而退出，还是因为花旗银行(Citibank)总裁经常公开发表关于此次出售的言论而决定不进行收购。 Despite this ideological ragbag of policies, the president is popular. Fully 65% of survey respondents approve of him. That is higher than any recent Mexican president at a similar point in their terms (see chart). Many investors are put off by Mr López Obrador. 尽管有这些意识形态上的政策，总统还是很受欢迎的。足足有65% 的受访者认可他。这一数字高于墨西哥任期内任何一位处于类似水平的近期总统(见图表)。许多投资者对洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生敬而远之。 But the country is faring better than other countries in Latin America, such as Brazil. Its proximity to the United States helps, making it a beneficiary of “friend-shoring”, as do Mexico’s 13 trade agreements with 50 countries. 但巴西的情况要好于拉丁美洲的其他国家，比如巴西。与美国的接近有所帮助，使其成为“朋友支柱”的受益者，墨西哥与50个国家的13项贸易协定也是如此。 Ms Sheinbaum is not the only contender to be Morena’s candidate for the presidency. Her closest rival is Marcelo Ebrard, the foreign minister. He is “the firefighter-in-chief” for Mr López Obrador’s government, says someone close to him. 辛鲍姆女士并不是莫雷纳总统候选人的唯一竞争者。她最亲密的竞争对手是外交部长马塞洛•埃布拉德(Marcelo Ebrard)。一位与他关系密切的人士表示，他是洛佩斯•奥夫拉多尔先生政府的“消防队长”。 His ministry leads talks with the United States on everything from migration to energy. After Mr López Obrador initially refused to condemn Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, it was Mr Ebrard who reassured President Joe Biden’s administration that Mexico remained an ally. 他的部门领导着与美国的会谈，从移民到能源。在洛佩斯•奥夫拉多尔(López Obrador)最初拒绝谴责弗拉基米尔•普京(Vladimir Putin)入侵乌克兰之后，正是埃夫拉德向美国总统乔•拜登(Joe Biden)的政府保证，墨西哥仍是美国的盟友。 His diplomacy also ensured that Mexico received vaccines during the pandemic. Until recently, he was better known among Mexicans than Ms Sheinbaum. 他的外交政策还确保墨西哥在大流行期间接种疫苗。直到最近，他在墨西哥人中的知名度还要高于辛鲍姆。 However, Ms Sheinbaum enjoys a widening lead over Mr Ebrard. Opinion polls place her eight percentage points ahead of him. It helps that she is the president’s preferred candidate. 然而，Sheinbaum 女士比 Ebrard 先生的领先优势越来越大。民意调查显示她领先他8个百分点。她是总统首选的候选人，这一点很有帮助。 For several months Morena’s activists have plastered signs declaring “Es Claudia” (“It’s Claudia”) across the country—possibly in violation of Mexico’s strict campaign laws. 几个月来，莫雷纳的活动人士在全国各地张贴标语，宣称“ Es Claudia”(“ It’s Claudia”) ，这可能违反了墨西哥严格的竞选法。 Her nomination seems assured. Mr López Obrador says Morena’s candidate will be decided by two surveys this summer. But concerns abound about their fairness, such as over which company will run them and what questions the public will be asked. 她的提名似乎已经确定。洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生说，莫雷纳的候选人将在今年夏天通过两项调查来确定。但人们普遍担心它们的公平性，比如由哪家公司经营，以及公众会被问到什么问题。 Many worry, including some within Morena, that the process will be akin to that under the PRI , when the leader chose his successor, a process known as the dedazo , or big finger. “This is the dedazo in disguise,” says Mariel Ibarra, a journalist. 许多人担心，包括莫雷纳内部的一些人，这个过程将类似于革命制度党，当领导人选择他的继任者，一个过程称为 deazo，或大手指。记者玛丽埃尔•伊巴拉(Mariel Ibarra)表示: “这就是伪装起来的迪亚佐。”。 A tricky inheritance 一笔棘手的遗产 But Ms Sheinbaum is a competitive figure in her own right, too. Mayors of Mexico City enjoy national prominence because they govern 7% of the country’s 126m people, who generate 15% of its GDP . For the most part she has done a good job. On her watch murders almost halved between 2018 and 2022, compared with a national fall of 8%. She has attempted to clean up the state police force by paying them a decent wage. 但是辛鲍姆女士本身也是一个有竞争力的人物。墨西哥城的市长享有全国性的声望，因为他们管理着墨西哥1.26亿人口中的7% ，这些人创造了墨西哥 GDP 的15% 。在大多数情况下，她做得很好。在她任内，谋杀案在2018年至2022年间几乎减少了一半，而在全国范围内则下降了8% 。她试图通过支付他们体面的工资来清理国家警察部队。 In a country where politicians are dogged by allegations of graft, she is seen as clean. 在一个政客们被贪污指控缠身的国家，她被认为是清白的。 Ms Sheinbaum tends to take a rational approach to policymaking. Unlike the president, she surrounds herself with competent people and is willing to take advice. 辛鲍姆倾向于采取理性的决策方法。与总统不同，她身边都是有能力的人，而且愿意听取意见。 During the pandemic she quietly distanced herself from Mr López Obrador, relying on data, masks and free tests to control covid-19 while he declared, mask-free from his pulpit, that there was no need to worry. 在流感大流行期间，她悄悄地与洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生保持距离，依靠数据、口罩和免费测试来控制2019冠状病毒疾病，而奥夫拉多尔先生则宣称，没有必要担心。 (Mexico’s absolute death toll was among the highest in the world.) Over the past five years her administration has built centres around the capital to help poor people to study and to access services. (墨西哥的绝对死亡人数位居世界前列。)在过去五年中，她的政府在首都周围建立了中心，帮助穷人学习和获得服务。 Assuming she secures the candidacy, the election looks like Ms Sheinbaum’s to lose. In 2018 the three main opposition parties (the PRI , PAN and PRD ) formed a coalition known as Va por México. The coalition is running again, but no one contender has emerged, while their main message is that they are not Morena. 假设她获得了候选人资格，那么这场选举看起来就像是辛鲍姆要输了一样。2018年，三个主要的反对党(革命革命党、全国行动党和民主革命党)组成了一个名为“墨西哥退伍军人联盟”的联盟。联合政府再次参选，但没有一个竞争者出现，而他们的主要信息是，他们不是莫雷纳。 “We need to do more than be the option that voters hold their nose to vote for,” says Fernando Belaunzarán, a former PRD lawmaker. “我们需要做的不仅仅是成为选民们投票支持的选项,”前民主革命党议员费尔南多•贝朗扎兰(Fernando Belaunzarán)表示。 Citizens’ Movement, a left-wing party that holds the governorships of Jalisco and Nuevo León, two important states, has a well-liked figure in Luis Donaldo Colosio, the son of a popular reformist PRI presidential candidate who was murdered in 1994. However, he has said he will not run. Mr Ebrard would be competitive were he to break with Morena, but few reckon he will. 公民运动是一个左翼政党，拥有哈利斯科和新莱昂这两个重要州的州长职位。公民运动中有一位广受欢迎的人物，他就是路易斯•多纳尔多•科洛西奥(Luis Donaldo Colosio)。科洛西奥的父亲是一位颇受欢迎的改革派总统候选人，他于1994年被谋杀。不过，他已表示不会参选。如果埃布拉德先生和莫雷纳决裂的话，他会很有竞争力的，但是很少有人认为他会这么做。 If Ms Sheinbaum becomes president, how different would she be from her mentor? So far, she appears to be sticking fairly closely to Mr López Obrador’s contradictory ideology. 如果辛鲍姆成为总统，她将与她的导师有何不同？到目前为止，她似乎相当紧密地坚持洛佩斯奥夫拉多尔先生的矛盾的意识形态。 It is hard to imagine that the mayor, who holds a doctorate in energy engineering, agrees with the president’s approach of favouring the national oil and power companies over clean and cheap power. But she has defended this signature part of the president’s platform. 很难想象，拥有能源工程博士学位的市长会同意总统的做法，即支持国有石油和电力公司，而不是清洁廉价的电力公司。但她为总统竞选纲领的这一标志性部分进行了辩护。 Similarly, Ms Sheinbaum has blamed “neoliberal” economic policy for Mexico’s inequality and criticised the electoral body. She may be tempted to follow Mr López Obrador’s lead and boost social handouts that buy loyalty but do not solve poverty. 同样，辛鲍姆将墨西哥的不平等现象归咎于“新自由主义”经济政策，并批评了选举机构。她可能会受到诱惑，效仿洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生的做法，增加购买忠诚但不能解决贫困问题的社会救济金。 Some policies would be hard to reverse. Mr López Obrador has deepened the involvement of the armed forces in fighting crime. He has also handed over 70 civilian functions to them, according to a study by Mexico United Against Crime, an NGO . Soldiers now control the ports and customs facilities, and will build, run and keep the profits from airports and a new tourist train. Ms Sheinbaum is unlikely to be able to remove these privileges, even if she wanted to. 有些政策将难以逆转。洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生加深了武装部队在打击犯罪方面的参与。根据非政府组织墨西哥联合反犯罪组织的一项研究，他还将70项民事职能移交给了他们。士兵们现在控制着港口和海关设施，并将建造、运营和保留从机场和新的旅游列车获得的利润。辛鲍姆女士不太可能取消这些特权，即使她想这么做。 But she has also used the same playbook: she deployed the National Guard, a notionally civilian organisation that has replaced the federal police, to help run Mexico City’s subway system after several crashes in 2021, to the outrage of subway workers. 但她也使用了同样的策略: 她部署了国民警卫队(National Guard) ，这是一个名义上的民间组织，取代了联邦警察，在2021年发生多起事故后，帮助管理墨西哥城的地铁系统，引起了地铁工作人员的愤怒。 Waiting in the wings 等在后面 It is doubtful, however, that Ms Sheinbaum will continue Mr López Obrador’s attempts to undermine the Supreme Court. Partly that is because she will not enjoy his political strength. 然而，令人怀疑的是，Sheinbaum 女士是否会继续 López Obrador 先生试图破坏最高法院的努力。这在一定程度上是因为她不会享受他的政治实力。 She will find it harder to lead Morena, which is more a fan club for Mr López Obrador than a political party. 她会发现领导莫雷纳更加困难，因为莫雷纳更像是洛佩斯 · 奥夫拉多尔先生的粉丝俱乐部，而不是一个政党。 She is also likely to preside over a more divided Congress: analysts predict 2024 will mirror midterm elections in 2021 when Morena lost ground, including its coalition’s congressional supermajority. 她还可能主持一个更加分裂的国会: 分析人士预测，2024年将重现2021年的中期选举，届时莫雷纳将失去优势，包括联合政府在国会的绝对多数。 Heir today, gone tomorrow 今天是继承人，明天就没了 It is also a matter of personality. Ms Sheinbaum is nowhere near as inflammatory as her boss, who takes aim at critics from hours-long daily press conferences. She is a “very different figure” from the president, says Patricia Mercado, a senator for Citizens’ Movement. 这也是一个个性的问题。Sheinbaum 女士远没有她的老板那么具有煽动性，她的老板通过每天长达数小时的新闻发布会来抨击批评者。公民运动参议员帕特里夏•梅尔卡多(Patricia Mercado)表示，她与总统“截然不同”。 Even so, some worry that Ms Sheinbaum will merely be Mr López Obrador’s proxy. The president says that he will retire to his ranch after stepping down at the end of 2024. But if Morena were to somehow win a supermajority in 2024, he has pledged to use his last month in power, when his successor is president-elect, to pass constitutional reforms that have already been rejected by the Supreme Court. 即便如此，一些人担心 Sheinbaum 女士仅仅是 López Obrador 先生的代理人。总统说，他将在2024年底退休后回到自己的农场。但是，如果莫雷纳在2024年以某种方式赢得绝对多数，他已经承诺利用自己在位的最后一个月，即他的继任者当选总统时，通过已经被最高法院否决的宪法改革。 Whether or not he remains on the political scene, his influence on Mexico will be felt for years to come. ■ 无论他是否留在政治舞台上，他对墨西哥的影响将在未来数年内显现出来。￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/the-americas/2023/05/23/mexico-could-elect-its-first-female-president-next-year 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/the-americas/2023/05/23/mexico-could-elect-its-first-female-president-next-year 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 A power struggle 权力斗争 Lula wants to purge Brazil of Jair Bolsonaro’s influence ❗ 🔄 He faces resistance from evangelicals, gun owners and big tech 他面临着来自福音派、枪支拥有者和大型科技公司的抵制 May 25th 2023 | São Paulo 2023年5月25日 | 圣保罗 L UIZ INÁCIO LULA DA SILVA , Brazil’s new left-wing president, has a tricky job ahead of him. The country is more polarised than at any time since its return to democracy in 1985. In January supporters of Jair Bolsonaro, his right-wing populist predecessor, stormed Congress, the presidential palace and the Supreme Court in Brasília, the capital. 路易斯·伊纳西奥·卢拉·达席尔瓦，巴西新任左翼总统，有一个棘手的工作摆在他面前。自1985年回归民主政体以来，两极分化比以往任何时候都严重。今年1月，他的右翼民粹主义前任雅伊尔•博索纳罗(Jair Bolsonaro)的支持者席卷了国会、总统府和首都巴西利亚的最高法院。 They did so to try to overturn the election result, in which Lula (as he is known) won by just 1.8 percentage points. Fully 39% of those polled still think that the election was rigged; younger Brazilians are particularly prone to support the former president. 他们这样做是为了试图推翻卢拉仅以1.8个百分点获胜的选举结果。整整39% 的受访者仍然认为选举被操纵; 年轻的巴西人尤其倾向于支持前总统。 The parallels with the United States are uncanny. 与美国的相似之处是不可思议的。 But Lula wants to ensure that, unlike Mr Bolsonaro’s idol Donald Trump, his predecessor cannot make a comeback. 但卢拉希望确保，与博索纳罗的偶像唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)不同，他的前任不会卷土重来。 In his first few months in office Lula has tried to overturn Mr Bolsonaro’s programme. He prevented ten state-owned enterprises from being privatised. He also repealed policies which pandered to Mr Bolsonaro’s base, including expansive new gun decrees. 在上任的头几个月里，卢拉试图推翻博索纳罗先生的计划。他阻止了十家国有企业私有化。他还废除了迎合博索纳罗先生基础的政策，包括大规模的新枪支法令。 In February he suspended new gun permits and introduced a deadline of May 3rd for gun owners to register their firearms or have them confiscated. 今年2月，他暂停了新的持枪许可证，并规定枪支所有者必须在5月3日前登记枪支或将枪支没收。 On April 30th Lula’s allies in Congress announced they would put forward legislation to curb online disinformation, which Mr Bolsonaro is being investigated for spreading. The law would force tech firms to remove fake news or face fines of up to 10% of their revenues in Brazil. 4月30日，卢拉在国会的盟友宣布，他们将提出立法来遏制网络虚假信息，博索纳罗先生正因传播此类信息而受到调查。该法案将迫使科技公司删除虚假新闻，否则将面临高达其在巴西收入10% 的罚款。 Similarly, on May 3rd Mr Bolsonaro’s home was raided by police over allegations that he falsified his covid-19 vaccination certificate. He is being investigated in another two dozen cases. He denies all wrongdoing. 同样，5月3日，警察突袭了博索纳罗先生的住所，指控他伪造了2019冠状病毒疾病疫苗接种证书。他正在接受另外20多起案件的调查。他否认一切不当行为。 Lula has also dismissed 189 federal-government soldiers for failing to prevent the riots in January. 卢拉还解雇了189名联邦政府士兵，因为他们未能阻止1月份的骚乱。 But his desire to purge Brazil of his predecessor’s Trumpist legacy faces several problems. For a start, Mr Bolsonaro can still count on a band of ardent supporters. An inquiry into the January riot is due to begin soon in Congress. 但他希望清除巴西前任留下的特朗普主义遗产的愿望面临几个问题。首先，博索纳罗先生仍然可以依靠一群热情的支持者。国会很快将开始对1月份的骚乱进行调查。 Two-fifths of Brazilians do not think Mr Bolsonaro played any role in the attack, as Lula suggests. 五分之二的巴西人不认为博索纳罗先生在这次袭击中扮演了任何角色，正如卢拉所说的那样。 Second, Mr Bolsonaro’s supporters are unlikely to respond well to attempts to change the status quo. Take gun owners. The right-wing president passed at least 32 decrees to allow Brazilians to buy more guns. 其次，博索纳罗先生的支持者不太可能对改变现状的努力作出好的反应。以持枪者为例。这位右翼总统至少通过了32项法令，允许巴西人购买更多的枪支。 The number of outstanding permits granted to buy firearms increased from 117,000 to 695,000 during his four-year term. Many gun owners are not going to give them up easily: over 6,000 people failed to register their weapons by the deadline. 在他的四年任期内，未获批准购买火器的数量从117000份增加到695000份。许多枪支拥有者不会轻易放弃他们: 超过6000人没有在截止日期前登记他们的武器。 Marco Aurélio Carvalho, a lawyer who helped formulate Lula’s gun policy, admits that registration is just the first step and more could be done, such as encouraging owners to sell their guns. 曾帮助卢拉制定枪支政策的律师马可•奥雷利奥•卡瓦略(Marco Aurélio Carvalho)承认，注册只是第一步，还可以做更多的事情，比如鼓励枪支所有者出售自己的枪支。 And Lula’s attempts to regulate social media have brought disparate groups together to oppose it. On May 2nd the president’s allies were forced to postpone a vote on the bill, after failing to gather congressional support for it. Many worry that the bill curtails free speech. 卢拉试图规范社交媒体的行为已经引起了不同团体的共同反对。5月2日，由于未能获得国会的支持，总统的盟友被迫推迟对该法案的投票。许多人担心该法案会限制言论自由。 Conservative types are against it, not least as it could incriminate Mr Bolsonaro. Two days after the attack on Congress, Mr Bolsonaro posted and quickly deleted a video claiming the election was fraudulent (he later told police he had uploaded the post by accident). 保守派反对这种做法，尤其是因为它可能使博索纳罗先生入罪。国会遇袭两天后，博索纳罗先生发布并迅速删除了一段声称选举存在欺诈的视频(他后来告诉警方，他上传该视频纯属偶然)。 Tech companies and evangelical Christians also oppose the bill. Google altered its search-engine results so that news articles which opposed the bill would appear at the top of the page, according to a study by the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. 科技公司和福音派基督徒也反对这项法案。根据里约热内卢联邦大学的一项研究，谷歌修改了其搜索引擎结果，使反对该法案的新闻文章出现在页面顶部。 In response, antitrust regulators opened an investigation against the company at the request of a senator who is a Lula ally. Evangelicals fear that it will prevent them from posting passages of the Bible that could be considered homophobic. 作为回应，反垄断监管机构应卢拉的一位盟友参议员的要求，对该公司展开了调查。福音派担心这会阻止他们张贴可能被认为是恐同的圣经段落。 Even some supporters of stricter regulation rejected certain points of the draft, such as one which would have given immunity to legislators who spread falsehoods online. Critics also feel that the bill could give the courts too much power. 甚至一些支持更严格监管的人也反对草案中的某些要点，比如给予在网上散布谎言的立法者豁免权。批评人士还认为，该法案可能赋予法院太多权力。 Last year the Supreme Court ordered the removal of thousands of social-media posts, mainly by bolsonaristas . It ordered the police to raid the homes of eight businessmen after some joked on WhatsApp that they would support a coup to keep Mr Bolsonaro in power. 去年，最高法院下令删除数以千计的社交媒体帖子，主要是由波索纳里斯塔斯发布的。在一些人在 WhatsApp 上开玩笑说他们将支持一场政变来保持博索纳罗先生的权力之后，政府命令警察突击搜查八名商人的家。 The final problem for Lula is that his predecessor managed to reshape aspects of the Brazilian state. Mr Bolsonaro’s party, which controls nearly a fifth of Congress, will probably water down any version of the fake-news bill. 卢拉面临的最后一个问题是，他的前任成功地重塑了巴西政府的方方面面。博索纳罗先生的政党控制着国会近五分之一的席位，他们可能会淡化任何版本的假新闻法案。 The public security caucus, made up mostly of pro-gun congressmen, has swelled from 25 legislators across both houses in 2018 to 37 today, out of a total of 594 representatives. Mr Bolsonaro’s heirs still wield power. 公共安全核心小组主要由支持枪支的国会议员组成，从2018年的25名议员扩大到今天的37名，共有594名议员。博索纳罗先生的继承人仍然掌权。 In April one of his sons, Flavio, a senator, proposed a bill that would loosen gun restrictions again. 今年4月，他的一个儿子，参议员弗拉维奥，提出了一项法案，将再次放宽枪支限制。 Jair’ll be back. Maybe Jair 会回来的，也许吧 Even if a fake-news bill is eventually passed, it will be hard to control what Brazilians post online. In the United States, viral posts spread on Facebook and other platforms, the content of which can be easily analysed. 即使一项假新闻法案最终获得通过，也很难控制巴西人在网上发布什么内容。在美国，病毒式的帖子在 Facebook 和其他平台上传播，其内容很容易被分析。 By contrast, in Brazil it circulates on encrypted messaging groups like Telegram which are harder to access, says David Nemer of the University of Virginia. 弗吉尼亚大学的 David Nemer 说，相比之下，在巴西，它通过像 Telegram 这样的加密信息群组传播，而这些群组很难访问。 All this means that ridding Brazil of Mr Bolsonaro’s influence will not be easy. With one exception. Under American law, Mr Trump can run for the presidency next year even if he is convicted in one of six inquiries investigating him for alleged wrongdoings. 所有这一切意味着，摆脱博索纳罗先生对巴西的影响并非易事。除了一个例外。根据美国法律，特朗普先生可以参加明年的总统竞选，即使他在六项调查中被判有罪。 In Brazil Mr Bolsonaro would become ineligible for office for eight years if convicted in one of the 15 criminal probes pending against him. ■ 在巴西，博索纳罗先生如果在15项针对他的刑事调查中被判有罪，他将在8年内没有资格担任公职。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/the-americas/2023/05/25/lula-wants-to-purge-brazil-of-jair-bolsonaros-influence 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/the-americas/2023/05/25/lula-wants-to-purge-brazil-of-jair-bolsonaros-influence 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

The Americas 美国 Sections 部分 China 中国 Asia 亚洲 Australia has faced down China’s trade bans and emerged stronger 澳大利亚取消了中国的贸易禁令，并变得更加强大 Surviving the dragon :: The “lucky country” may be uniquely able to endure Chinese bullying 幸存的龙: : “幸运的国家”可能独一无二地能够忍受中国人的欺凌 Sheikh Hasina is Asia’s iron lady 哈西娜酋长是亚洲的铁娘子 An interview with Bangladesh’s prime minister :: Her tragic past now threatens Bangladesh’s future 接受孟加拉国总理采访: 她的悲惨过去现在威胁着孟加拉国的未来 Japan’s ageing society is finding creative ways to dispose of its dead 日本日益老龄化的社会正在寻找处理死者遗体的创造性方法 Up and away :: A new craze for funeral planning is disrupting the way Japanese think and speak about their demise 一股新的葬礼筹备热潮正在扰乱日本人思考和谈论他们死亡的方式。 America is lavishing attention on Pacific island states 美国把大量的注意力放在太平洋岛国身上 Banyan :: Anthony Blinken is the most significant American official to visit Papua New Guinea since General Douglas MacArthur 安东尼 · 布林肯是自巴布亚新几内亚道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟以来访问美国最重要的官员 The Americas 美国 Sections 部分 China 中国

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Surviving the dragon 在恶龙面前幸存下来 Australia has faced down China’s trade bans and emerged stronger 澳大利亚取消了中国的贸易禁令，并变得更加强大 The “lucky country” may be uniquely able to endure Chinese bullying 这个“幸运的国家”可能是唯一能够忍受中国欺凌的国家 May 23rd 2023 | BEIJING and SYDNEY 2023年5月23日，北京和悉尼 W HEN CHINA launched a campaign of economic coercion against Australia in 2020, Communist Party bosses thought they had crushing leverage. The economies of the two countries—resource-rich Australia and commodities-hungry China—were complementary and closely connected. 当中国在2020年发起对澳大利亚的经济胁迫运动时，共产党的领导人认为他们拥有压倒性的影响力。资源丰富的澳大利亚和渴求大宗商品的中国这两个国家的经济互补性强，关系密切。 By massively curbing shipments of everything from timber to coal, lobsters, barley and wine, on pretexts including exaggerated concerns about trade practices and pest infestations, China imposed a A$24bn ($16bn) hit on Australia, representing 5.5% of its total annual exports. 通过大规模限制木材、煤炭、龙虾、大麦和葡萄酒等各种商品的出口，借口包括对贸易行为和虫害的过度担忧，中国对澳大利亚实施了240亿澳元(160亿美元)的打击，占其年度出口总额的5.5% 。 Yet it did not succumb. And like a surfer surviving a shark attack with no more than a lightly gnawed board, Australia is now emerging from three years of Chinese bullying in remarkably good shape. 但它没有屈服。就像一个冲浪运动员在鲨鱼袭击中幸存下来，身上只有一块被轻轻咬过的冲浪板一样，澳大利亚现在正以一种非常好的状态摆脱中国三年来的欺凌。 Its exports briefly suffered under the strictures, then surged—culminating last year in Australia’s biggest-ever trade surplus, equivalent to more than 7% of GDP. And the trade blocks, imposed after Australia’s then-conservative government dared call for an inquiry into the origins of Covid-19, are coming off. 澳大利亚的出口在这些限制之下短暂受挫，然后飙升，去年达到高潮，创下澳大利亚有史以来最大的贸易顺差，相当于国内生产总值(GDP)的7% 以上。在当时保守的澳大利亚政府大胆呼吁对2019冠状病毒疾病的起源进行调查之后，澳大利亚实施的贸易封锁正在取消。 On May 18th, after a meeting between the two countries’ trade ministers in Beijing, China lifted a de facto ban on Australian timber. 5月18日，两国贸易部长在北京会晤后，中国解除了对澳大利亚木材的实际禁令。 (“Serious study” by quarantine officials had allayed its concerns about bug infestation, explained Xiao Qian, China’s ambassador in Canberra.) Since January, Chinese importers have been quietly buying Australian coal: in the first quarter of 2023 Australia sent them A$1.2bn-worth of the stuff. (中国驻堪培拉大使肖谦解释说，检疫官员的“严肃研究”减轻了人们对虫害的担忧。)自今年1月以来，中国进口商一直在悄悄购买澳大利亚煤炭: 2023年第一季度，澳大利亚向中国出口了价值12亿澳元的煤炭。 Australia’s centre-left Labor government says cotton and copper exports are also resuming. China is reviewing tariffs on barley, Australia having suspended its case against them at the World Trade Organisation ( WTO ). 澳大利亚中左翼工党政府表示，棉花和铜的出口也正在恢复。中国正在重新考虑对大麦征收关税，澳大利亚已经暂停了在世界贸易组织(WTO)对中国的诉讼。 After years of unchecked Chinese bullying, on Asia’s seas, in its multilateral forums and beyond, Australia’s escape is being widely understood as a significant win. And so it is. Yet it involved, as well as strong nerves, a large dose of luck. 经过多年来中国在亚洲海域、多边论坛及其他地区肆无忌惮的欺凌，澳大利亚的逃脱被广泛理解为一次重大胜利。的确如此。然而，这不仅需要强大的神经，还需要大量的运气。 Chinese leaders were only half-right. As their boycott began, Australia’s economy was indeed reliant on China. Exports of goods and services to China accounted for 11% of outbound trade in 2005. By 2020, the share stood at 37%. 中国领导人只说对了一半。当他们开始抵制时，澳大利亚的经济确实依赖于中国。2005年，对华商品和服务出口占对外贸易的11% 。到2020年，这一比例达到了37% 。 Mitigating its reliance, Australia’s bet on China was chiefly a wager on international trade. Australia has relatively few multinationals that manufacture and sell inside China. But even without vast China-based subsidiaries, Australia was vulnerable. The Economist ’s in-house index of China exposure adds goods exports to China, services exports to China and Hong Kong, and the revenue of foreign multinationals’ affiliates operating in China and Hong Kong. Australia’s exposure, at 8.2% of GDP in 2020, was double that of America, and close to that of Germany. 减轻对中国的依赖，澳大利亚对中国的押注主要是对国际贸易的押注。澳大利亚在中国境内生产和销售的跨国公司相对较少。但即使没有在中国的大型子公司，澳大利亚也很脆弱。《经济学人》的内部中国风险指数包括对中国的商品出口、对中国内地和香港的服务出口，以及在中国内地和香港运营的外国跨国公司子公司的收入。2020年，澳大利亚的风险敞口占 GDP 的8.2% ，是美国的两倍，接近德国。 Luckily for Australia, however, the two economies were such a good fit that China’s firms felt as much pain from the curbs as Australia’s, if not more. And some commodities, such as Australian iron ore, were so hard to replace China chose not to target them. 然而，对澳大利亚来说幸运的是，这两个经济体是如此的契合，以至于中国公司感受到的限制带来的痛苦不亚于澳大利亚公司，甚至更多。澳大利亚铁矿石等一些大宗商品很难取代中国选择不瞄准它们的做法。 Also luckily, many of Australia’s bruised exporters found other markets. 同样幸运的是，澳大利亚许多伤痕累累的出口商找到了其它市场。 After China slapped a tariff of up to 80% on Australian barley, its producers sold it to South-East Asian countries. They also planted other crops. And Chinese beer-makers had to buy other countries’ barley, which was not as good. 在中国对澳大利亚大麦征收高达80% 的关税后，其生产商将其出售给东南亚国家。他们还种植其他作物。而中国啤酒制造商不得不购买其他国家的大麦，而大麦的质量并不好。 When China blocked shipments of Australian coal, similarly, it had to buy more from Russia and Indonesia. That left India and Japan short, so Australia sold to them. Meanwhile, rising world prices made Australian miners lots of money. 同样，当中国阻止澳大利亚煤炭出口时，它不得不从俄罗斯和印度尼西亚购买更多煤炭。这让印度和日本做空，于是澳大利亚卖给了它们。与此同时，不断上涨的全球价格让澳大利亚矿业公司赚了很多钱。 Australian pain, though not insignificant, was concentrated: lobster fishermen struggled; wine exports to China’s middle classes plunged. 澳大利亚的痛苦虽然不是无关紧要，但却是集中的: 龙虾渔民生活艰难; 对中国中产阶级的葡萄酒出口骤减。 Australia’s efforts to manage the crisis politically were assisted by Chinese overreach. China’s propaganda machine fiercely denounced Australia, and almost all official contacts were frozen. 澳大利亚在政治上应对危机的努力，得益于中国的过度干预。中国的宣传机器强烈谴责澳大利亚，几乎所有的官方联系都被冻结。 In November 2020 China’s embassy in Australia made public a list of 14 grievances with the country’s then conservative government. 2020年11月，中国驻澳大利亚大使馆公布了一份清单，列出了中国当时保守派政府的14项不满。 Ranging far beyond economic questions, China moaned that members of Australia’s parliament were allowed to criticise the Communist Party and that the country’s news outlets published “unfriendly or antagonistic” reporting on China. 中国抱怨称，澳大利亚议会成员被允许批评共产党，该国新闻机构发表了“不友好或敌对”的中国报道，这远远超出了经济问题的范围。 The then-prime minister, Scott Morrison, suggested that these complaints were essentially against “Australia just being Australia”. 时任澳大利亚总理斯科特•莫里森(ScottMorrison)表示，这些抱怨基本上是针对“澳大利亚就是澳大利亚”。 Encouraged by such missteps, Australia held its nerve. The election of a new government, led by Anthony Albanese, then gave China an excuse to climb down. 在这些失误的鼓舞下，澳大利亚保持了冷静。由安东尼·阿尔巴尼西领导的新政府的选举，给了中国让步的借口。 Mr Albanese’s government has been careful not to crow. Dispelling talk of a big win for the West, it claims to be steadfastly respectful and pragmatic in its dealing with China. 艾尔巴尼斯先生的政府一直小心翼翼地避免自鸣得意。驱散了西方取得重大胜利的言论，声称在与中国打交道时坚定不移地表现出尊重和务实。 The idea, ministers say, is to “co-operate where we can, disagree where we must”—meaning no gratuitous poking of the dragon. “Disagree behind closed doors, but don’t amplify your differences,” warns another Australian official. “China responds well to this.” 部长们表示，这个想法是“在可能的地方合作，在必须的地方意见不一致”——意思是不要无缘无故地戳龙。另一位澳大利亚官员警告说: “私下里存在分歧，但不要放大分歧。”。“中国对此反应良好。” Alongside such caution, Australia also understood its strengths. China relented because it “saw that we wouldn’t capitulate”, the same official argues. Australia resisted demands to change laws, overturn investment bans and muffle critics. 除了这种谨慎，澳大利亚也明白自己的优势。这位官员认为，中国之所以缓和态度，是因为它“看到我们不会投降”。澳大利亚拒绝了修改法律、推翻投资禁令和压制批评者的要求。 Rather, under its previous and current government, it tied its security policy tighter to America through AUKUS , a trilateral submarine-building pact that also includes Britain, and a policy of deterrence. It is also doing more diplomatically to counter China’s influence in the Pacific. The trade bans have in this sense backfired. 相反，在其前任和现任政府的领导下，它通过 AUKUS，一个包括英国在内的三边潜艇建设协议，以及一项威慑政策，将其安全政策与美国更紧密地联系在一起。同时，它也在采取更加外交的手段来对抗中国在太平洋地区的影响力。从这个意义上说，贸易禁令适得其反。 Australia set another useful example at the WTO. China agreed to review its barley tariffs just as Australia’s case against them was concluding. Rather than force the issue to a judgment, Australia suspended its action. 澳大利亚在世贸组织树立了另一个有用的榜样。中国同意重新评估其大麦关税，而澳大利亚针对中国的诉讼正接近尾声。澳大利亚非但没有将这个问题强加于人，反而中止了自己的行动。 “China does not want to be shamed in the international arena,” says Matthew Goodman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “中国不想在国际舞台上丢脸,”华盛顿战略与国际研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的马修•古德曼(Matthew Goodman)表示。 Australia was additionally helped by the fact that China wants to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Trans-Pacific Partnership ( CPTPP ), a vast regional trade deal. As a CPTPP member, Australia could block China’s accession. It accordingly made clear there was no possibility of accession talks so long as China was trampling economic rules and its pre-existing free-trade agreements with Australia. 此外，中国希望加入全面进步跨太平洋战略经济伙伴关系协议协定(cptPP)——一项庞大的区域贸易协定——也对澳大利亚有所帮助。作为 CPTPP 成员国，澳大利亚可能会阻止中国加入。因此，它明确表示，只要中国践踏经济规则及其与澳大利亚之前存在的自由贸易协定，就不可能进行入世谈判。 How will Australia guard against the risk of a repeat? Decoupling is not on the agenda—China still accounts for almost a third of its total goods and services exports. But three years of Chinese bullying have left a mark. 澳大利亚将如何防范重蹈覆辙的风险？脱钩不在议程上ーー中国仍占其商品和服务出口总额的近三分之一。但中国三年来的欺凌行为留下了一个印记。 Australia is trying to reduce its reliance on China by signing free-trade agreements with India and Britain. Another, with the EU, is in the works. 澳大利亚正试图通过与印度和英国签署自由贸易协定来减少对中国的依赖。另一项与欧盟合作的计划正在酝酿之中。 China’s aggression has concentrated minds among Australia’s partners and allies, too. At meetings in Japan on May 20th, leaders of the Group of Seven ( G7 ) countries voiced concern at the “disturbing rise in incidents of economic coercion” and promised, for the first time, to collaborate against attempts to “weaponise economic dependencies”. 中国的侵略行为也让澳大利亚的合作伙伴和盟友集中了注意力。在5月20日于日本举行的会议上，七国集团(G7)领导人对“令人不安的经济胁迫事件增多”表示担忧，并首次承诺合作打击“将经济依赖武器化”的企图。 There is more talk of solidarity and co-ordination, so countries do not profit by selling more to a bully when a friend or neighbour is being targeted. 人们更多地谈论团结和协作，因此，当一个朋友或邻居成为攻击目标时，国家不会通过向恃强凌弱者出售更多商品而获利。 America’s ambassador to Japan, Rahm Emanuel, talks of his country offering “support and countervailing opportunities to partners in their times of need”. 美国驻日本大使伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)表示，美国“在合作伙伴需要帮助的时候，向他们提供支持和反补贴机会”。 China is the largest trade partner of a long and growing list of countries. Very few have the wealth and natural resources that protected Australia, the “lucky” country. Even so, many are studying the lessons of Australia’s escape from China’s grip. ■ 中国是越来越多国家的最大贸易伙伴。很少有人拥有保护澳大利亚这个“幸运”国家的财富和自然资源。即便如此，许多人仍在学习澳大利亚摆脱中国控制的经验教训。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/23/australia-has-faced-down-chinas-trade-bans-and-emerged-stronger 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/23/australia-has-faced-down-chinas-trade-bans-and-emerged-stronger 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 An interview with Bangladesh’s prime minister 采访孟加拉国总理 Sheikh Hasina is Asia’s iron lady 哈西娜酋长是亚洲的铁娘子 Her tragic past now threatens Bangladesh’s future 她悲惨的过去威胁着孟加拉国的未来 May 24th 2023 | TYSONS CORNER, VIRGINIA 2023年5月24日，弗吉尼亚州，泰森角 B ANGLADESH’S PRIME MINISTER , Sheikh Hasina, is the world’s longest-serving female head of government, and one of the most significant of either sex. During two decades in office she has presided over momentous poverty alleviation in her country of 170m, fuelled by average annual GDP growth of 7% for much of that time. The 75-year-old has led her party, the Awami League, to victory in three consecutive polls, and four in all—one more than Indira Gandhi or Margaret Thatcher managed. With an election due early next year, which she is expected to win, The Economist asked her, in an interview in her northern Virginia hotel suite, what ambitions she had left. 孟加拉国总理谢赫 · 哈西娜是世界上任期最长的女性政府首脑，也是两性中最重要的人物之一。在她执政的20年里，她在她的1.7亿人口的国家里主持了重大的脱贫攻坚，在此期间的大部分时间里，国内生产总值平均每年增长7% 。这位75岁的老人领导她的政党人民联盟(Awami League)在连续三次民调中获胜，总共获胜四次，比英迪拉•甘地(Indira Gandhi)或其他撒切尔夫人领导人多一次。明年年初，她有望赢得大选。在她位于弗吉尼亚州北部的酒店套房接受采访时，《经济学人》(The Economist)杂志问她，她还有什么抱负。 “I want to make this country a hunger-free, poverty-free developed country,” she says—then abruptly switches tack. “Can you imagine that they killed my father?” she asks, referring to the grim history that launched and still shadows her career. “我想让这个国家成为一个没有饥饿、没有贫困的发达国家。”。“你能想象他们杀了我父亲吗?”她问道，指的是那段阴暗的历史，那段历史开启了她的职业生涯，至今仍影响着她的职业生涯。 Her father, Bangladesh’s first president, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, was assassinated in an army coup in 1975, four years after the country’s bloody split from Pakistan. Seventeen of his close relatives—almost all except Sheikh Hasina, in Europe at the time—were murdered too. 她的父亲，孟加拉国第一任总统，谢赫·穆吉布·拉赫曼，在1975年的一次军事政变中被暗杀，四年前该国从巴基斯坦血腥分裂。他的17名近亲(除了当时在欧洲的谢赫•哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)之外，几乎全部遇害)。 “They killed my brother, my mother, another brother—only ten years old! My two sisters-in-law, my only uncle, a disabled person,” says the prime minister, her eyes wet with tears. “他们杀了我的兄弟，我的母亲，还有另一个兄弟ーー只有十岁！我的两个嫂子，我唯一的叔叔，一个残疾人,”首相说，她的眼泪湿润了。 Her advisers had primed this interviewer to ask about that long-ago tragedy. He had not, but Sheikh Hasina raises it anyway, as she often does. This illustrates the great sense of loss and destiny she exudes—and on which she has built an imposing personality cult. 她的顾问们已经让这位采访者准备好询问那场很久以前的悲剧。他没有，但谢赫哈西娜提出了反正，因为她经常这样做。这说明了她散发出的强烈的失落感和命运感ーー在这种感觉上，她建立了一种令人难忘的个人崇拜。 A huge portrait of Sheikh Mujib, schlepped around the world by her 100-man retinue, leans by her chair. She nods towards it, as if bringing the murdered man into the conversation. 一幅巨大的穆吉布酋长肖像，由她的100人随从拖着环游世界，靠在她的椅子上。她朝它点点头，好像把那个被谋杀的人带进了谈话中。 The question confronting Bangladeshis is whether their leader’s feelings of grievance and dynastic entitlement are becoming a threat to her legacy and their future. The interview provides little reassurance. 孟加拉国人面临的问题是，他们领导人的不满情绪和王朝特权是否正在对她的遗产和他们的未来构成威胁。这次采访没有给我们什么安慰。 No politician likes criticism. But the prime minister bristles at the slightest suggestion that her record is imperfect; and in response offers rapid-fire criticisms of almost every Bangladeshi government except her own. 没有政治家喜欢批评。但是总理对她的记录并不完美的一点点暗示感到愤怒; 作为回应，她对几乎每一个孟加拉国政府都进行了迅速的批评，除了她自己的政府。 Asked about corruption, she blames it on the military government that replaced her father, accuses the World Bank of inventing a recent scandal allegedly involving members of her government, then claims the problem does not exist. 当被问及腐败问题时，她将其归咎于接替她父亲的军政府，指责世界银行(World Bank)最近捏造了一起涉及其政府成员的丑闻，然后声称问题并不存在。 “Maybe in the down level, but not that much nowadays. They dare to do it and I will take action!” “也许在底层，但现在没有那么多。他们敢这样做，我会采取行动!” Bangladesh has long been rated South Asia’s most corrupt country after Afghanistan. Thanks to the Taliban’s steps, it may now be the most corrupt. 长期以来，孟加拉国一直被评为继阿富汗之后南亚最腐败的国家。由于塔利班的步伐，它现在可能是最腐败的。 Some of its graft looks symptomatic of the de facto one-party state that Sheikh Hasina, fulfilling one of her father’s ambitions, has made. 其中一些贪污行为看起来象征着谢赫•哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)实现了父亲的一个抱负，建立了事实上的一党制国家。 Before she was re-elected in 2008, power switched repeatedly between the League and the Bangladesh Nationalist Party ( BNP ), run by another charismatic dynast, Khaleda Zia. Amid the political tumult, the country’s institutions, including the media, police and courts, had a degree of independence. 在她于2008年再次当选之前，权力在联盟和孟加拉国民族主义党(bNP)之间反复切换，后者由另一位富有魅力的王朝领导人卡莉达•齐亚(Khaleda Zia)执掌。在政治动荡中，包括媒体、警察和法院在内的国家机构有一定程度的独立性。 Now Mrs Zia is under on-off house arrest, her party’s activists are hounded, the media is cowed and the police and courts are suborned to Sheikh Hasina’s party. Not coincidentally, they are two of the country’s most corrupt bodies. 如今，齐亚夫人时不时地遭到软禁，她所在政党的活动人士遭到追捕，媒体受到恐吓，警方和法院都听命于谢赫•哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)所在的政党。并非巧合的是，他们是这个国家最腐败的两个机构。 The coming election will not offer the BNP a way back. Although Sheikh Hasina claims to be committed to a free vote, she says that only a “real political party” should be permitted to compete—and that her opponents do not fit the criteria. 即将到来的选举不会为 BNP 提供一条退路。尽管谢赫•哈西娜声称致力于自由投票，但她表示，只有“真正的政党”才应被允许参与竞争，而她的对手不符合这一标准。 She accuses the BNP , formed under army rule half a century ago, of being “constituted by a military ruler illegally”. She alleges that the country’s biggest Islamist party, a former ally of Pakistan, is “almost all war criminals”. 她指责半个世纪前在军队统治下成立的 BNP 是“由军事统治者非法组成的”。她宣称，巴基斯坦最大的伊斯兰政党——巴基斯坦的前盟友——“几乎都是战犯”。 “Our point is that there is no such party [apart from the League] who can really contest the election.” “我们的观点是，(除了联盟)没有这样一个政党能够真正参与竞选。” In some ways, Bangladesh has probably benefited from her iron grip. 在某些方面，孟加拉国可能从她的铁腕统治中获益。 It has not obviously boosted the growth rate, which hit a high gear before her extended spell in office and is largely a product of pre-existing factors: such as the country’s garment industry and services provided by its elite NGO s. Yet she has wrought policies, including infrastructure investment, that have helped maintain the boom, which a weaker government might not have sustained. 这并没有明显地提高经济增长率，在她任期延长之前，经济增长率已经达到了一个高速，这在很大程度上是先前存在的因素的产物: 比如该国的服装业和精英非政府组织提供的服务。然而，她制定的政策，包括基础设施投资，帮助维持了经济繁荣，而一个较弱的政府可能无法维持这种繁荣。 But authoritarianism has diminishing returns. Overly reliant on garments, Bangladesh needs to develop new exports, a reality its government is hardly grappling with. 但威权主义有报酬递减。孟加拉国过度依赖服装，需要开发新的出口产品，而政府很难应对这一现实。 (Sheikh Hasina says it is looking to develop handicrafts and food processing—an insufficient solution.) Bangladeshis, a disputatious people, are bridling at her strictures. Several hundred were protesting rowdily outside the hotel. Rights groups say the election could be violent. (谢赫•哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)表示，该公司正寻求发展手工艺品和食品加工业，这是一个不充分的解决方案。)孟加拉国人，一个有争议的民族，对她的苛责感到愤怒。几百人在旅馆外吵吵嚷嚷地抗议。人权组织说，选举可能是暴力的。 America might once have warned Sheikh Hasina to let Bangladeshi democracy breathe. Now it is mainly concerned that she should not accommodate China, which her government is courting for investment. India, where she has close personal ties, takes a similar view. 美国也许曾经警告过谢赫 · 哈西娜让民主政体喘口气。现在主要关注的是，她不应该容纳中国，而中国正是她的政府寻求投资的对象。印度也持类似观点，她在印度有着密切的个人关系。 Sheikh Hasina appears adept at mollifying all three, a success she attributes to pragmatism. “The relations between America and China are their own matter. Why should I poke my nose there?” Yet she makes a dig at America, because it was once close to Mrs Zia. 谢赫 · 哈西娜似乎善于安抚这三个人，她将这一成功归功于实用主义。“美中关系是他们自己的事情。我为什么要在那里多管闲事?”然而，她挖苦了美国，因为它曾经接近齐亚夫人。 “They say they are the democratic country…But in our country they don’t exercise that. Why don’t they support me?” “他们说他们是民主国家... ... 但在我们国家，他们不这样做。他们为什么不支持我?” Actually they do, but perhaps shouldn’t. Sheikh Hasina’s long career has been a story of courage and the ruthless use of power, with some policy successes that she can lay claim to, and epic national growth that she cannot, but does. It is hard to see how the story will end well. 事实上他们有，但也许不该有。谢赫 · 哈西娜漫长的职业生涯是一个关于勇气和无情使用权力的故事，她可以宣称自己取得了一些政策上的成功，她不能但确实取得了史诗般的国家发展。很难看出这个故事会有什么好结局。 She is growing increasingly authoritarian and resented and, as she confirms, has no plans to retire. 她正变得越来越独裁，越来越被憎恨，而且正如她所证实的那样，她没有退休的计划。 Her government’s latest plan is entitled Vision 2041. She will not see it out, she concedes. But as she broaches a third decade in power, succession planning is not on the agenda. “Because if I’m not there…I don’t know who will come to power.” ■ 她的政府的最新计划名为“愿景2041”。她承认，她将无法看到结果。但在她执政的第三个十年即将到来之际，接班人计划却不在议事日程上。“因为如果我不在那里... ... 我不知道谁会掌权。”￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/24/sheikh-hasina-is-asias-iron-lady 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/24/sheikh-hasina-is-asias-iron-lady 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Up and away 飞起来 Japan’s ageing society is finding creative ways to dispose of its dead 日本日益老龄化的社会正在寻找处理死者遗体的创造性方法 A new craze for funeral planning is disrupting the way Japanese think and speak about their demise 一股新的葬礼筹备热潮正在扰乱日本人思考和谈论自己死亡的方式 May 25th 2023 | TOCHIGI 2023年5月25日 | TOCHIGI T HE SAKASHITAS gather in front of a gigantic red balloon. Inside it are the ashes of their late father, Haruhiko, and his late dog, Fuu-chan. On a count of three, Saiko, the dead man’s daughter, snips the string tethering the helium-filled orb. 酒鹿们聚集在一个巨大的红气球前。里面是他们已故的父亲，春彦和他已故的狗，福蟾的骨灰。我数到三，死者的女儿 Saiko 剪断了束缚氦气球的绳子。 It shoots into the sky, with a dozen smaller balloons in pursuit. The family members watch—some waving—until the balloons disappear into the clouds. “Our father was a calm man, always travelling the world,” says his oldest son, Kohei. 它冲天而起，十几个小气球紧追不舍。家人们看着气球消失在云端，有些人在挥手致意。“我们的父亲是一个冷静的人，总是周游世界，说:”他的大儿子，高平。 “Whenever we look at the sky, we will think of him.” “每当我们仰望天空，我们都会想起他” In Japan, people are traditionally cremated after death and their ashes buried. But in a crowded, ageing and largely secular society, this is becoming trickier and less desirable. 在日本，人们传统上是死后火化和骨灰埋葬。但在一个拥挤、老龄化、基本上是世俗化的社会，这种做法正变得越来越棘手，也越来越不受欢迎。 Japan’s death rate is soaring—in 2022 the country logged 1.5m deaths, the highest figure since the second world war. Grave sites are running out of space. There are fewer grieving relatives around to perform funeral rites, or to tend graves. 日本的死亡率正在飙升ーー2022年，该国死亡人数达到150万，为二战以来的最高水平。墓地已经没有地方了。周围很少有悲痛欲绝的亲属来举行葬礼或照料坟墓。 As a result, the rituals surrounding death in Japan are changing. 因此，日本围绕死亡的仪式正在发生变化。 The “balloon funeral” chosen by the Sakashitas was invented in 2011 by a Japanese firm called Balloon Kobo, which has performed 300 such funerals to date. Scattering ashes in the sea or mountains used to be frowned upon, but it has become widely accepted in recent years. Sakashitas 选择的“气球葬礼”是2011年由一家名为“气球 Kobo”的日本公司发明的，迄今为止，该公司已经举办了300场这样的葬礼。过去，人们不赞成把骨灰撒在大海或山上，但近年来，这种做法已被广泛接受。 “Tree burials”, whereby buried ashes are marked by a sapling instead of a gravestone, are even more popular. A survey showed that half of those who purchased graves in 2022 chose tree burial sites. 更受欢迎的是“树葬”，即用树苗代替墓碑来标记埋葬的骨灰。一项调查显示，在2022年购买坟墓的人中，有一半选择了树葬地点。 People are increasingly attracted to the idea of “becoming one with nature”, says Inoue Haruyo of Ending Centre, a non-profit that helps put people in touch with cemeteries. 结束中心(Ending Centre)的井上春代(Inoue Haruyo)表示，人们越来越被“与自然融为一体”的想法所吸引。结束中心是一家帮助人们与墓地建立联系的非营利组织。 The new methods also tend to be much cheaper than purchasing tombstones, which typically cost at least a million yen ($7,200). “Most people don’t want to bother their children after death,” says Onodera Yoshihiro, the president of Balloon Kobo. 新方法也比购买墓碑便宜得多，墓碑通常至少要花费100万日元(7200美元)。“大多数人不想在孩子死后打扰他们,”气球公司总裁小野寺义弘说。 Traditionally, Japanese graves are inherited by a family member, usually the eldest son, who is then charged with paying fees to the temples that manage them. Since the 1990s, as Japan’s birth rate has declined, there has been a growing shortage of such custodians. 传统上，日本人的坟墓由家庭成员继承，通常是长子，然后由长子向管理坟墓的寺庙支付费用。自上世纪90年代以来，随着日本出生率的下降，这类监护人日益短缺。 For many city-dwellers, visiting graves in their or their ancestors’ rural home towns (as is expected during certain holidays, such as obon) is also increasingly troublesome. Many ashes have been dug up and transferred as a result. In 2020 nearly 120,000 graves across Japan were thus “closed”. 对于许多城市居民来说，在他们或他们祖先的农村家乡扫墓(正如某些节日期间所预期的那样，比如 obon)也越来越麻烦。因此，许多骨灰被挖出并转移。2020年，日本各地有近12万座坟墓因此被“关闭”。 Japanese families traditionally hold a days-long wake for their dead relative and then the funeral service. But even where the old ways are hewn to, funerals are shrinking for lack of mourners or funds. 日本家庭传统上会为死去的亲人守灵一整天，然后举行葬礼。但是，即使在传统方式习以为常的地方，由于缺乏哀悼者或资金，葬礼也在减少。 In Japan, where life expectancy is over 80, many outlive their friends and close relatives. Partly to save money, it has become more normal to dispense with formalities such as lavish funeral altars and decorations. 在日本，人均寿命超过80岁，许多人比他们的朋友和近亲更长寿。在一定程度上，为了省钱，人们已经变得更加正常，不再需要那些奢华的葬礼祭坛和装饰品之类的礼节。 “The scale of one death has become smaller and smaller,” says Ms Inoue. Funerals and mourning are increasingly being combined into day-long affairs. Simply cremating bodies without any gathering or funeral rite is also becoming more common. 井上女士说: “一个人死亡的规模已经变得越来越小。”。葬礼和哀悼越来越多地被合并为一天的事务。没有任何集会或葬礼仪式的简单火化尸体也变得越来越普遍。 While funerals are traditionally Buddhist (and marriages Shinto), non-religious funerals are also on the rise. 虽然葬礼传统上是佛教徒的(婚姻也是神道教的) ，但是非宗教的葬礼也在增加。 These disruptions are not only easing the burden on bereaved families. They are also changing the way Japanese think and talk about their impending demise. Selecting from a growing number of funeral options necessitates conversations about death, once a taboo. 这些干扰不仅减轻了失去亲人的家庭的负担。他们也在改变日本人思考和谈论他们即将灭亡的方式。从越来越多的葬礼选择中进行选择，需要讨论死亡，这曾经是一个禁忌。 “Shukatsu”, or “death planning”, a term that combines the words for “end” and “activity”, has entered the lexicon. Beyond funeral preparation it often entails taking greater care over bequests and posthumous instructions than was once the norm. “ Shukatsu”，或“死亡计划”，一个结合了“结束”和“活动”的词汇，已经进入词典。除了准备葬礼之外，通常还需要比以往更加注意遗产和遗嘱。 “When he was alive, my husband said he would like to fly in the sky,” says Sakashita Akiko, Haruhiko’s wife, explaining why the family opted for a balloon funeral. Their son Kohei echoes the sentiment. “We knew what our father wanted, and we wanted to respect that.” ■ 春彦的妻子坂下明子(Sakashita Akiko)在解释全家为何选择气球葬礼时表示: “他活着的时候，我丈夫说他想在天上飞。”。他们的儿子高平对此表示赞同。“我们知道父亲想要什么，我们希望尊重这一点。”￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/25/japans-ageing-society-is-finding-creative-ways-to-dispose-of-its-dead 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/25/japans-ageing-society-is-finding-creative-ways-to-dispose-of-its-dead 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Banyan 榕树 America is lavishing attention on Pacific island states 美国把大量的注意力放在太平洋岛国身上 Anthony Blinken is the most significant American official to visit Papua New Guinea since General Douglas MacArthur 安东尼•布林肯(Anthony Blinken)是自巴布亚新几内亚以来访问道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟最重要的美国官员 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 T HERE ARE two ways of looking at the security pact that Antony Blinken, America’s secretary of state, signed with the prime minister of Papua New Guinea ( PNG ), James Marape, on May 22nd. The obvious one is as further evidence of the great-power contest between America and China that is playing out in ever-expanding ripples across the Pacific Ocean. 5月22日，美国国务卿安东尼 · 布林肯与巴布亚新几内亚巴布亚新几内亚总理詹姆斯 · 马拉佩签署了安全协议。显而易见的一点是，这进一步证明了美国和中国之间的大国竞争正在太平洋上激起不断扩大的涟漪。 In that contest, America had, by its own reckoning, previously neglected the role of Pacific island states, of which PNG , a diverse land with 10m people, is by far the biggest. 根据美国自己的估算，在那场竞赛中，美国此前忽视了太平洋岛国的作用，其中巴布亚新几内亚是迄今为止最大的一个岛国，该国拥有1000万人口，是一个多样化的国家。 America is now making amends. It opened an embassy in the Solomon Islands and Tonga, and has plans to do so in Kiribati and Vanuatu. While in Port Moresby, PNG’ s capital, Mr Blinken also signed renewed “compacts of free association” with Micronesia and Palau, island states between PNG and America’s dependency of Guam. A renewed compact with the Marshall Islands will follow. These states hand over their defence exclusively to America in return for aid guarantees and other benefits. 美国现在正在做出补偿。它在所罗门群岛和汤加群岛开设了大使馆，并计划在基里巴斯和瓦努阿图开设大使馆。在巴布亚新几内亚首都莫尔兹比港，布林肯先生还与密克罗尼西亚和帕劳签署了新的“自由联合协定”。随之而来的是与马绍尔群岛的新契约。这些国家把自己的国防完全交给美国，以换取援助保障和其他利益。 Yet the pact with PNG, the most striking evidence of renewed American engagement with the region, also represents a significant new opportunity for its island states. President Joe Biden had been due to travel to PNG to sign the pact. America’s fraught internal debt-ceiling negotiations nixed that. Even so, Mr Blinken is surely now the most influential American official to have visited PNG since General Douglas MacArthur. 然而，美国与巴布亚新几内亚签署的协议，是美国重新参与该地区事务的最明显证据，也为巴布亚新几内亚岛国提供了一个重要的新机遇。美国总统乔•拜登(Joe Biden)原定前往巴布亚新几内亚签署该协议。美国令人担忧的国内债务上限谈判否决了这一提议。即便如此，布林肯先生无疑是自道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟以来访问巴布亚新几内亚的最有影响力的美国官员。 The strategic thinking is this: if America is to deter China from invading Taiwan (or if it is to defend Taiwan if China invades), Guam will be a crucial American military base. It is outside the range of many Chinese missiles. 战略思维是这样的: 如果美国要阻止中国入侵台湾(或者如果中国入侵台湾，美国要保卫台湾) ，关岛将是一个关键的美国军事基地。它在许多中国导弹的射程之外。 But Guam’s resilience rests on safe seas and skies around it. Hence the importance of these other island states. In addition, were China to control the waters around PNG, Australia, an important American ally, could be bottled up. Some of the bitterest fighting of the second world war took place in PNG , where MacArthur was supreme allied commander, precisely because of its strategic importance. 但是关岛的恢复能力取决于它周围的安全海域和天空。因此，这些其他岛国的重要性。此外，如果中国控制了巴布亚新几内亚附近的水域，美国的重要盟友澳大利亚可能会受到压制。第二次世界大战中一些最惨烈的战斗发生在巴布亚新几内亚，麦克阿瑟的盟军统帅正是因为其战略重要性。 America’s view of a titanic, superpower contest is officially deplored by China—but shared by it. Its envoy to the Pacific, Qian Bo, accuses America of possessing a “cold-war mentality”, of trying to sabotage China’s relationships, and of being blinded by “ideological prejudice”. 美国认为这是一场巨大的、超级大国之间的较量，中国官方对此表示遗憾，但中国也有同感。中国驻太平洋大使钱波指责美国持有“冷战思维”，试图破坏中美关系，并被“意识形态偏见”蒙蔽了双眼。 Perhaps. But China has a cold-war mentality, too. It vies unbendingly with Taiwan for influence with the Pacific’s smaller states. In 2019 its financial inducements, some of them underhand, persuaded the Solomon Islands and Kiribati to switch diplomatic allegiance. 也许吧。但中国也有冷战思维。它不屈不挠地与台湾争夺太平洋小国的影响力。2019年，它的金融诱惑(其中一些是暗中的)说服所罗门群岛和基里巴斯改变了外交立场。 A security pact that China signed with the Solomons last year led a panicked America to realise how much ground in the region it had lost. 去年，中国与所罗门群岛签署了一项安全协议，这让惊慌失措的美国意识到，自己在该地区失去了多少地盘。 Untrammelled competition between the two big powers is met by some islanders with foreboding (Port Moresby saw protests against the new pact). 两个大国之间不受约束的竞争使得一些岛民有不祥的预感(莫尔兹比港出现了反对新协议的抗议活动)。 The Pacific islands’ history as hapless victims is seared into the collective memory; they were objects of colonial exploitation, then bloody battlefields and finally post-war sites for nuclear tests. 这些太平洋岛屿作为不幸受害者的历史深深烙印在人们的集体记忆中; 它们曾经是殖民剥削的对象，然后是血腥的战场，最后是战后的核试验场。 But for those minded to see the upside for the Pacific states, as well as the risks, in their renewed geopolitical relevance, there are many opportunities to point to. 但是，对于那些希望看到太平洋国家重新获得地缘政治重要性的好处和风险的人来说，有很多机会可以指出。 The island states are no longer victims. It has been years, says John Blaxland of the Australian National University in Canberra, since they enjoyed such favours from outside powers, in terms of high-level visits, offers of investment and other commitments (the $45m Mr Blinken promised impoverished PNG will help it fight transnational crime and climate change). 岛国不再是受害者。堪培拉澳大利亚国立大学(Australian National University)的约翰•布莱克斯兰德(John Blaxland)表示，多年来，他们一直享受着外部势力在高层访问、投资和其它承诺(布林肯先生承诺的4500万美元将帮助贫困的巴布亚新几内亚打击跨国犯罪和气候变化)方面的好处。 Great-power competition can mean growing options. The PNG deal underscores a level of comfort among Pacific states with outsiders that have English, Christianity and history in common with them. Last year they flatly rejected China’s attempts to create a new geopolitical bloc. Yet they are happy to take Chinese investment. 大国之间的竞争可能意味着更多的选择。巴布亚新几内亚的协议强调了太平洋国家对与他们有共同英语、基督教和历史的外来者的一定程度的安慰。去年，他们断然拒绝了中国创建一个新的地缘政治集团的企图。然而，他们乐于接受中国的投资。 Mr Marape says PNG will not stop working with China; indeed it is negotiating a free-trade deal with it. PNG, says Mihai Sora of the Lowy Institute, a Sydney think-tank, is “very deft at compartmentalising relationships”—security and development with America, trade and investment with China. 马拉佩先生说，巴布亚新几内亚不会停止与中国的合作; 事实上，它正在与中国谈判一项自由贸易协定。悉尼智库罗伊研究所(Lowy Institute)的米海•索拉(Mihai Sora)表示，巴布亚新几内亚“非常善于划分关系”，即与美国的安全与发展、与中国的贸易与投资。 Other Pacific states are, too. Seen from a local perspective, the island countries are increasingly binding America and China into a web of Pacific obligations. It could make the region stronger—and, by restraining the adventurism of both powers, perhaps even safer. ■ 其他太平洋国家也是如此。从当地的角度来看，这些岛国正日益将美国和中国捆绑在一个太平洋义务网络中。这可能会让该地区变得更加强大ーー而且，通过抑制这两个大国的冒险主义，或许会让该地区变得更加安全。￭ Read more from Banyan, our columnist on Asia: 阅读更多亚洲专栏作家 Banyan 的文章: Myanmar’s conflict is dividing South-East Asia (May 18th) 缅甸的冲突正在分裂东南亚(5月18日) A winner has emerged in the old rivalry between Singapore and Hong Kong (May 11th) 新加坡和香港(5月11日)之间的老对手已经出现了一个赢家 America’s closest Indo-Pacific allies are cosying up (May 4th) 美国最亲密的印度洋-太平洋盟友正在讨好(5月4日) Also: How the Banyan column got its name 还有: 榕树一栏是如何得名的 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/25/america-is-lavishing-attention-on-pacific-island-states 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/asia/2023/05/25/america-is-lavishing-attention-on-pacific-island-states 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Asia 亚洲 Sections 部分 Middle East & Africa 中东和非洲 China 中国 Hungary is becoming more important to China 匈牙利对中国越来越重要 A toe-hold in Europe :: Viktor Orban and Xi Jinping bond over their anti-Americanism 维克多 · 欧尔班和习近平因为他们的反美而联系在一起 Small-town Chinese officials are making money with music festivals 中国小城镇的官员通过音乐节赚钱 Surfin’ again :: And exhausted urban youngsters are flocking to them 疲惫不堪的都市年轻人蜂拥而至 China’s cancel culture is nationalist, not woke 中国的取消文化是民族主义的，而不是觉醒的 Dog’s dinner :: One comedian finds himself unwittingly on the end of it 狗的晚餐: 一个喜剧演员发现自己在不知不觉中走到了尽头。 Why the Communist Party fears gay rights 为什么共产党害怕同性恋权利 Chaguan :: Social conservatism plus paranoia about foreign infiltration prompts a crackdown 社会保守主义加上对外国渗透的偏执导致了镇压 Asia 亚洲 Sections 部分 Middle East & Africa 中东和非洲

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 A toe-hold in Europe 在欧洲站稳脚跟 Hungary is becoming more important to China 匈牙利对中国越来越重要 Viktor Orban and Xi Jinping bond over their anti-Americanism 维克托•欧尔班(Viktor Orban)和习近平因反美而建立了友好关系 May 24th 2023 | BEIJING AND BUDAPEST 2023年5月24日 | 北京和布达佩斯 T O EARS ACCUSTOMED to a swelling chorus of China-scepticism in the European Union, the language of Hungarian diplomats is striking. Not for them the common talk of European officials about the need to “de-risk” relations with China and to treat it as a “systemic rival”. 对于欧盟内部日益高涨的对中国的怀疑声音，匈牙利外交官的语言已经习以为常。对他们来说，欧洲官员的共同话题不是有必要“降低”与中国关系的风险，并将中国视为“系统性竞争对手”。 Co-operation between Hungary and China presents “opportunities rather than risks”, said Hungary’s foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, in Beijing on May 15th. 匈牙利外交部长彼得 · 西贾托5月15日在北京表示，匈牙利与中国的合作带来的是“机遇而非风险”。 Wang Yi, China’s foreign-affairs overlord, told him that relations between the countries had entered their “best period in history”. 中国外交大臣王毅告诉他，两国关系已进入“历史上最好的时期”。 As China surveys the grim landscape of its foreign policy in Europe, battered by differences over matters ranging from the war in Ukraine to human rights abuses in Xinjiang and China’s muscle-flexing around Taiwan, Hungary’s dogged friendliness towards China—and Russia—stands out. 从乌克兰战争到新疆侵犯人权，再到中国在台湾问题上炫耀武力，中国在欧洲的外交政策面临严峻考验，而匈牙利对中国和俄罗斯的顽固友好态度尤为突出。 Hungary echoes China’s view that Western support for Ukraine is merely fuelling the conflict at Europe’s expense. Speaking to Bloomberg on May 23rd, Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, defended his blocking of a $540m package of EU financial aid to Ukraine. “There’s no chance to win this war,” he said. 匈牙利赞同中国的观点，认为西方对乌克兰的支持只是以牺牲欧洲利益为代价来加剧冲突。5月23日，匈牙利总理维克多 · 欧尔班在接受彭博社采访时为自己阻止欧盟向乌克兰提供5.4亿美元的财政援助进行了辩护。“没有机会赢得这场战争,”他说。 Other countries in eastern Europe, such as Poland, had shared Hungary’s fondness for close ties with China. 其他东欧国家，如波兰，也和匈牙利一样喜欢与中国保持密切关系。 But their enthusiasm has been dented by China’s support for Russia during the Ukrainian war, and a sense that the business rewards of embracing China politically have not been as great as expected. 但乌克兰战争期间中国对俄罗斯的支持，以及在政治上拥抱中国的商业回报并不像预期的那么高的感觉，削弱了他们的热情。 China sees good uses in friendship with Europe. The EU is a vital trading partner. Moreover the bloc could, if it wished, soften the impact of America’s rivalry with China by taking a less security-focused approach. Officials in Beijing are alarmed by a recent trend—seen not least in critical joint statements at a G 7 meeting in Tokyo on May 21st—towards greater transatlantic co-operation on China, notwithstanding differences among EU members over how far this should go. During a trip to China last month France’s president, Emmanuel Macron, warned that European countries should not become “just America’s followers” regarding Taiwan. 中国认为与欧洲的友谊很有用。欧盟是一个重要的贸易伙伴。此外，如果欧盟愿意，它可以采取不那么注重安全的做法，从而减轻美国与中国竞争的影响。北京的官员们对最近的趋势感到震惊，尤其是在5月21日于东京举行的七国集团(G7)会议上发表的批评性联合声明中，尽管欧盟成员国在这方面应走多远存在分歧。法国总统埃马纽埃尔•马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)上月访华期间警告称，欧洲国家不应成为台湾问题上“美国的追随者”。 But Hungary is special. The worldviews of Mr Orban and of China’s leader, Xi Jinping, have much in common. They are both authoritarians (albeit to different degrees), who bridle at American power but believe the West is in decline. They are both fond of Russia. 但匈牙利很特别。欧尔班和中国领导人习近平的世界观有很多共同点。他们都是威权主义者(尽管程度不同) ，对美国的实力不满，但认为西方正在衰落。他们都喜欢俄罗斯。 Mr Orban’s friends in the business world stand to benefit from deals with authoritarian regimes. 欧尔班先生在商界的朋友们将从与专制政权的交易中获益。 Hungary is well-placed to serve China’s foreign-policy interests. As a member of the EU it has a veto over foreign and security policy. It has used it to dilute or scupper EU statements critical of China. It is also a member of NATO , an alliance that China views with growing misgivings. Hungary has shown occasional willingness to thumb its nose there, too, for instance in its recent support for Turkey in blocking Sweden’s accession. 匈牙利完全有能力为中国的外交政策利益服务。作为欧盟成员国，它对外交和安全政策拥有否决权。它用它来淡化或破坏欧盟批评中国的声明。中国也是北约成员国，中国对北约的看法越来越疑虑重重。匈牙利也偶尔表现出对此嗤之以鼻的意愿，例如最近它支持土耳其阻止瑞典加入欧盟。 So, as China sees it, a country of fewer than 10m people and one of the poorest in the EU has an outsize role to play. This was evident in February when Mr Wang went on his first overseas tour since taking over as China’s foreign-affairs chief (state media confirmed his promotion in January; it means he outranks Qin Gang, the foreign minister). 因此，在中国看来，一个人口不到1000万、是欧盟最贫穷国家之一的国家，需要发挥巨大的作用。今年2月，王先生出任中国外交部长以来的首次海外访问(官方媒体在1月份证实了他的晋升; 这意味着他的级别高于外交部长秦刚) ，这一点就很明显。 He visited France, Italy and then Germany for the Munich Security Conference of global foreign-policy elites. Before heading to Moscow, he stopped in Hungary where he praised the country’s “China-friendly policy”, according to Hungarian media. 他先后访问了法国、意大利和德国，参加由全球外交政策精英组成的慕尼黑安全会议。据匈牙利媒体报道，在前往莫斯科之前，他访问了匈牙利，赞扬了匈牙利的“对华友好政策”。 Mr Szijjarto thanked him for China’s “absolutely indispensable” support during the covid-19 pandemic, including the supply of Chinese-made vaccines (which Hungary used in defiance of an EU consensus that covid vaccines deployed in the bloc should first gain EU approval). Szijjarto 先生感谢中国在2019冠状病毒疾病大流行期间提供的“绝对不可或缺”的支持，包括中国制造的疫苗(匈牙利无视欧盟关于在欧盟部署的冠状病毒疾病疫苗应首先获得欧盟批准的共识，使用了中国制造的疫苗)。 In the past couple of years, it might have been expected that events in Hungary would give China pause for thought. Mr Orban, who has ruled the country since 2010 and emerged even stronger after another victory in general elections last year, remains a dependable friend. 在过去几年里，人们或许曾预料到，匈牙利发生的事件会让中国停下来思考一下。欧尔班先生自2010年以来一直统治着这个国家，并在去年的大选中再次获胜后变得更加强大，他仍然是一位可靠的朋友。 Polls suggest that Hungarians are among the people most supportive of China within the EU (it helps that the country’s mostly pro-government media stifle China-sceptic views). But China-related protests in Budapest in 2021 and recently in Debrecen, the country’s second-largest city, have raised questions about how enduring this sentiment will prove. 民意调查显示，匈牙利是欧盟内部最支持中国的国家之一(这有助于该国主要亲政府的媒体压制对中国持怀疑态度的观点)。但是，2021年在布达佩斯以及最近在中国第二大城市德布勒森发生的与中国有关的抗议活动，引发了人们对这种情绪将持续多久的质疑。 A survey published last year by Pew Research Centre, an American polling outfit, found that 52% of respondents in Hungary held negative views of China, a rise of 15 points since 2019. 美国民调机构皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Centre)去年发布的一项调查显示，匈牙利52% 的受访者对中国持负面看法，比2019年上升了15个百分点。 South of Budapest’s city centre, in the semi-wasteland of an abandoned logistics hub, street signs recall the unrest in the capital two years ago that brought anxieties about China—at least briefly—into public debate. 在布达佩斯市中心以南，一个废弃物流中心的半荒地上，街道上的路标让人想起两年前首都发生的骚乱，那场骚乱使人们对中国的担忧(至少短暂地)引发了公开辩论。 The names on them are pokes at China: “Uyghur Martyrs Street” and “Bishop Hszie Si-kuang Street” (after the late Xie Shiguang, a Catholic, imprisoned for 30 years). 上面的名字是对中国的讽刺: “维吾尔烈士街”和“谢主教四光街”(以已故天主教徒谢世光入狱三十年而命名)。 In 2021 the mayor of Budapest, Gergely Karacsony, gave the roads these new labels (also a Dalai Lama Street and a Free Hong Kong Street) in protest against a plan to build a campus of Shanghai’s Fudan University on the nearby land. 2021年，布达佩斯市长格尔吉利 · 卡拉克索尼(Gergely Karacsony)给道路贴上了这些新标签(还有达赖喇嘛街和自由香港街) ，以抗议在附近土地上修建上海复旦大学校园的计划。 Leaked official documents showed that construction would cost $1.8bn, with 80% of the money coming from a Chinese loan. 泄露的官方文件显示，建设将耗资18亿美元，其中80% 来自中国贷款。 Opposition position 反对派 The Fudan project helped to galvanise the government’s critics in Budapest, an opposition stronghold. Three days after the renaming of the streets, thousands joined a rally to denounce the campus plan. 复旦工程有助于激起反对派据点布达佩斯对政府的批评。街道重新命名三天后，数千人参加了一个集会，谴责校园计划。 Complaints about it ranged from possible stifling of academic debate to the loss of land that had been earmarked for subsidised student housing. 有关这一政策的抱怨从可能扼杀学术辩论到失去原本用于资助学生住房的土地不一而足。 Mr Orban appeared to back down, agreeing to a referendum on the plan. But after his re-election in 2022 the Constitutional Court said such a ballot could not be held because it would involve an international agreement. It is unclear, however, whether the project will proceed. 欧尔班先生似乎做出了让步，同意就该计划举行全民公决。但在2022年他再次当选后，宪法法院表示，这样的投票不能举行，因为它将涉及一项国际协议。然而，目前还不清楚该项目是否会继续进行。 Some analysts in Budapest say China, alarmed by public anger, may have got cold feet. 布达佩斯的一些分析人士表示，中国可能因为公众的愤怒而临阵退缩。 Fractured after last year’s election, the opposition shows little sign of trying to revive public interest. But in the past few months in Debrecen, the government’s own supporters have joined a campaign that still simmers against another Chinese project. 去年大选后，反对党四分五裂，几乎没有显示出试图恢复公众利益的迹象。但过去几个月，在德布勒森，政府自己的支持者加入了一场反对另一个中国项目的运动。 It involves a plan, announced in August by CATL , a Chinese battery giant, to build a factory just outside the city in the village of Mikepercs at a cost of around $7.7bn. It would make batteries for electric vehicles ( EV s), the largest such facility in Europe. Hungary’s efforts to develop its EV industry have attracted others, too. Last year BMW , a German firm, began building a $2bn EV and battery factory in Debrecen. This month another Chinese firm, EVE Energy, said it would set up a $1.2bn battery factory to supply BMW ’s plant. 中国电池巨头宁德时代科技集团(CATL)今年8月宣布，计划斥资约77亿美元，在 Mikepercs 郊外建设一家工厂。该公司将为电动汽车制造电池，这是欧洲最大的电动汽车制造厂。匈牙利发展电动汽车工业的努力也吸引了其他国家。去年，德国公司宝马(BMW)开始在德布勒森建造一家价值20亿美元的电动汽车和电池工厂。本月，另一家中国公司 EVE Energy 表示，将投资12亿美元建立一家电池厂，为宝马工厂供货。 Some residents worry about the potential impact of the CATL project on the local environment and the area’s scarce water resources. They have staged protests and heckled local officials at public hearings. 一些居民担心 CATL 项目对当地环境和该地区稀缺水资源的潜在影响。他们举行了抗议活动，并在公开听证会上质问当地官员。 “Opening up to the East is a mistake,” says one activist, a 60-year-old retired medic, referring to Mr Orban’s policy of promoting business with China and other Asian countries. “Because Hungarian culture is European culture.” “向东方开放是一个错误,”一位60岁的退休医生说，他指的是欧尔班先生促进与中国和其他亚洲国家商业往来的政策。“因为匈牙利文化就是欧洲文化” In Budapest, however, opposition supporters say they doubt the protests in Debrecen will pose a challenge to Mr Orban or to China’s government. The media give little coverage, they say. Any difficulty for his party, Fidesz, will remain largely local. 然而，在布达佩斯，反对派支持者表示，他们怀疑德布勒森的抗议活动会对欧尔班先生或中国政府构成挑战。他们说，媒体很少报道。他的政党青年民主联盟(Fidesz)面临的任何困难都将主要局限于本地。 Opposition politicians have attacked another multi-billion-dollar endeavour involving Chinese firms: a new rail link between Budapest and Belgrade in neighbouring Serbia (work on the Hungarian side began in 2021). 反对派政治家抨击了另一项涉及中国公司的数十亿美元计划: 一条连接布达佩斯和邻国塞尔维亚的贝尔格莱德的新铁路(匈牙利方面的工作于2021年开始)。 They say it is overpriced and worry about favouritism in awarding contracts. But China regards the project as a highlight of its belt-and-road building in Europe, for which Mr Orban is a cheerleader. 他们表示，该公司定价过高，并担心在授予合同时存在偏袒。但中国将该项目视为其在欧洲“一带一路”建设的一大亮点，而欧尔班先生是这方面的啦啦队长。 For all the shifts in European attitudes to China, it is likely that Mr Xi will make few adjustments. Despite Mr Orban’s political isolation in Europe, he shows no sign of distancing himself from China. As long as he remains in power, Hungary will be a useful ally. 尽管欧洲对中国的态度发生了种种转变，但习可能不会做出什么调整。尽管欧尔班先生在欧洲受到政治孤立，但他没有表现出与中国疏远的迹象。只要他继续掌权，匈牙利将是一个有用的盟友。 “Studying its position on China could offer lessons for developing good relations between China and other European countries,” wrote two Chinese scholars in a paper published this year in a Communist Party journal. 两名中国学者在今年发表于中共党刊的一篇论文中写道: “研究中国的立场，可以为发展中国与其他欧洲国家的良好关系提供借鉴。”。 One obvious lesson would be that pro-Russian, illiberal governments make solid friends. China’s options in Europe are narrowing. ■ 一个显而易见的教训是，亲俄、不自由的政府会结交可靠的朋友。中国在欧洲的选择范围正在缩小。 ￭ Subscribers can sign up to Drum Tower , our new weekly newsletter, to understand what the world makes of China—and what China makes of the world. 订阅者可以在我们新的每周通讯《鼓楼》(Drum Tower)上注册，了解世界如何看待中国ーー以及中国如何看待世界。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/24/hungary-is-becoming-more-important-to-china 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/24/hungary-is-becoming-more-important-to-china 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Surfin’ again 再次冲浪 Small-town Chinese officials are making money with music festivals 中国小城镇的官员通过音乐节赚钱 And exhausted urban youngsters are flocking to them 疲惫不堪的城市年轻人蜂拥而至 May 25th 2023 | BEIJING 2023年5月25日 | 北京 L OCKDOWN WAS brutal. But nature is healing. And, it turns out, nature is also part of the healing. As frazzled urbanites emerge from their pandemic hibernaculum into a grim economy, some want to venture to the great outdoors. 封锁很残酷。但大自然在治愈。事实证明，自然也是治愈的一部分。当疲惫不堪的城市居民从他们的大流行的冬眠地进入一个严峻的经济时，一些人想要冒险到大户外去。 Small cities and rural areas are obliging by putting on funky new music festivals where the youth can dance and hug and relax once again. 小城市和农村地区正在举办时髦的新音乐节，让年轻人可以再次跳舞、拥抱和放松。 Music festivals were a growing business when covid struck. China’s Woodstock moment had happened back in 2000, when the first festival emerged at Midi, a renowned music school in a Beijing suburb. 当冠状病毒疾病来袭时，音乐节的生意越来越红火。中国的伍德斯托克音乐节要追溯到2000年，当时第一届音乐节在北京郊区的著名音乐学校迷笛举行。 Covering a range of musical tastes from grunge to metal to punk, they grew in number to more than 250 in 2019. So far this year alone, 150 have been announced. 涵盖了从垃圾摇滚到金属摇滚到朋克的音乐品味，2019年这一数字增长到了250多种。仅今年迄今为止，已经宣布了150个。 A perfect example took place in mid-April at a remote wetland park in the southwestern province of Sichuan. Some 5,000 revellers gathered outside the city of Meishan for the Chunyou Festival ( chun you means “spring outing”). Sparkling lakes dot the landscape between green hills and idyllic forests not far from Sichuan’s famous panda sanctuaries. A fifth of those attending came from outside Sichuan, many from Shanghai and Beijing. 一个完美的例子发生在四月中旬的四川省西南部的一个偏远的湿地公园。大约5000名狂欢者聚集在梅山乡城外庆祝春游(春游的意思是春游)。绿色的小山和田园诗般的森林之间点缀着波光粼粼的湖泊，距离四川著名的熊猫保护区不远。五分之一的与会者来自四川以外地区，其中许多人来自上海和北京。 Many discounted tickets also went to locals, some of whom just came to watch the city folks boogie. With everyone dressed up in boho chic, it felt like a small-scale Coachella, without the weed. 许多打折票也流向了当地人，他们中的一些人只是来看城市居民跳舞。每个人都穿着波西米亚风格的衣服，感觉就像一个没有大麻的小型科切拉。 Many urban hipsters have been to such festivals this spring. 今年春天，许多都市潮人都参加了这样的节日。 Others have friends who have just returned from a forest near a town no one had ever heard of before, where they talked about love and peace and forgot about parental pressure to find a spouse and the ”996” grind (9am till 9pm, six days a week). 还有些人的朋友刚从一个从未听说过的小镇附近的森林里回来，在那里他们谈论着爱与和平，忘记了父母寻找配偶的压力和“996”的折磨(每周六天，上午9点到晚上9点)。 Seeing their popularity, another struggling tribe has looked to cash in. Local officials also had a tough lockdown, exhausting their budgets chasing down every single case of covid, while watching their income slip away. 看到他们的受欢迎程度，另一个苦苦挣扎的部落已经开始赚钱了。地方官员也面临严格的封锁，他们在追查每一宗冠状病毒疾病的同时，眼睁睁地看着自己的收入流失，耗尽了自己的预算。 Now, realising that anxious urban youths will pay good money to loiter near a yoga tent drinking craft beer or mingle at a Tibetan tea area, officials are scrambling to compete for tourists, and looking to build their small-town brand by getting the cool kids posting online. 现在，意识到焦虑的城市年轻人会花大价钱在瑜伽帐篷附近闲逛，喝着精酿啤酒，或者在藏族茶区混在一起，官员们争先恐后地争夺游客，希望通过让酷孩子们在网上发帖来打造他们的小镇品牌。 Type #musicfestivals into Xiaohongshu, a social-media app, and you get 2m hits. Chunyou was part of a series of culture- and tourism-awareness programmes for Renshou county, where the wetland park is located. 在社交媒体应用“ Xiaohongshu 音乐节”上输入 # ，点击量就会达到200万。春游是湿地公园所在地仁寿县一系列文化和旅游宣传活动的一部分。 A local newspaper said the number of tourists visiting the park increased 50% from the last festival two years ago. 当地一家报纸说，参观公园的游客人数比两年前的上一个节日增加了50% 。 During the May Day holiday this year, more than 40 music festivals were held across 19 provinces and regions, with many of those in lower-tier cities. 今年的五一假期，全国19个省区共举办了40多个音乐节，其中许多都是在中小城市举办的。 Zhuji, a small city two hours from Shanghai, reported that tourists spent 450m yuan ($64m) the weekend it launched its first-ever music festival, including an increase of 365% on hotels and restaurants from the previous weekend. 距离上海两小时车程的小城市诸暨市报告称，该市首次举办音乐节，周末游客消费4.5亿元人民币(合6400万美元) ，其中酒店和餐厅消费较上周末增长了365% 。 Yantai, a coastal city in Shandong province where this year’s Midi festival was held, said 340,000 tourists visited and spent 200m yuan. In the midst of a national economic slowdown, Zhuji and Yantai have both been struggling with debts. 烟台是山东省的一个沿海城市，今年的迷笛节就是在这里举行的。在国民经济放缓之际，诸暨市和烟台都在艰难应对债务问题。 “Music festivals have ‘brought fire’ to us,” claimed the Zhuji government on WeChat, a social-media platform, using the Chinese phrase for “going viral”. “音乐节给我们带来了火灾,”诸暨市政府在社交媒体平台微信上表示。 Chunyou “is a much-needed trip for me after living in Shanghai for a while,” says Wency Chen, who works in communications. Several of her friends had flown to Sichuan too. A woman in her 30s, who calls herself Peach, drove two hours with her brother to get there. 在上海生活了一段时间后，春友“对我来说是一次非常必要的旅行,”从事传播工作的温西 · 陈(WencyChen)说。她的几个朋友也飞到四川去了。一个自称 Peach 的30多岁的女人，和她的哥哥开了两个小时的车到了那里。 The whole scene made her feel “happy and liberated”, she said. 她说，整个场景让她感到“快乐和自由”。 The music is not bad, either. China’s live music scene has evolved a lot, and Chunyou featured a lot of ethnic-minority tunes, played by artists such as Kawa, a reggae group from Yunnan province, and Ts.Bayandalai, an ethnic Mongolian musician. And, in spite of a crackdown on many areas of urban cultural life (see next story), there is still a sense of freedom in the music world. It may not equal the hedonism of some Western gigs, but the festivals are among the few places where rainbow flags can be waved. The organisers are keen to keep a small-town vibe. “We don’t want to become a giant festival,” says one. “We just want people to have fun.” ■ 音乐也不错。中国的现场音乐演出已经发生了很大的变化，春游以很多少数民族的曲调为特色，由来自云南的雷鬼乐队 Kawa 和 Ts 等艺术家演奏。巴音达莱，蒙古族音乐家。而且，尽管对城市文化生活的许多领域进行了打压(见下一个故事) ，音乐世界仍然有一种自由的感觉。它可能不等于一些西方音乐会的享乐主义，但是这些节日是少数几个可以挥舞彩虹旗的地方。组织者希望保持小镇的氛围。“我们不想成为一个盛大的节日,”其中一人表示。“我们只是想让人们玩得开心。”￭ Subscribers can sign up to Drum Tower , our new weekly newsletter, to understand what the world makes of China—and what China makes of the world. 订阅者可以在我们新的每周通讯《鼓楼》(Drum Tower)上注册，了解世界如何看待中国ーー以及中国如何看待世界。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/25/small-town-chinese-officials-are-making-money-with-music-festivals 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/25/small-town-chinese-officials-are-making-money-with-music-festivals 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Dog’s dinner 狗的晚餐 China’s cancel culture is nationalist, not woke 中国的取消文化是民族主义的，而不是觉醒的 One comedian finds himself unwittingly on the end of it 一个喜剧演员发现自己不知不觉地走到了最后 May 25th 2023 | BEIJING 2023年5月25日 | 北京 D OG JOKES are usually fairly inoffensive. The audience laughed when Li Haoshi, a Beijing-based comedian, wisecracked at a show on May 13th about seeing his two dogs chasing a squirrel. The dogs’ zeal, he said, reminded him of military slogans associated with the People’s Liberation Army ( PLA ): “Forge exemplary conduct! Fight to win!” The slogans have become something of a motto for the armed forces (and are also favourites of President Xi Jinping). The incident may have ended Mr Li ‘s career. 狗的笑话通常是相当无害的。5月13日，北京喜剧演员李浩石在一场演出中开玩笑说，他的两只狗在追一只松鼠，观众们都笑了。他说，这些狗的热情让他想起了与中国人民解放军(PLA)有关的军事口号: “树立模范行为！为胜利而战!”这些口号已成为军队的座右铭(也是习近平主席的最爱)。这一事件可能结束了李先生的职业生涯。 His joke was recorded and posted on Weibo, a social-media platform. Nationalists claimed he was comparing the PLA to dogs. Outrage built. Hashtags about the joke received over a billion views. Within days Beijing’s police had started an investigation. They have not said what Mr Li will be charged with, but he has already been banned from performing. 他的笑话被记录下来并发布在社交媒体平台微博上。民族主义者声称他把解放军比作狗。愤怒建立。关于这个笑话的标签有超过十亿的点击量。几天之内，北京警方就展开了调查。他们没有说李先生将被指控什么罪名，但是他已经被禁止表演了。 The media company he worked for was fined $2m for “wantonly slandering the glorious image of the PLA ”. Its line-up of shows was cancelled. 他供职的这家媒体公司因“肆意诋毁中国人民解放军的光荣形象”而被罚款200万美元。它的演出阵容被取消了。 Since the incident, several other events have also been called off with little explanation. On May 20th, an open-air concert in Beijing (aptly named “What the Folkstival”) was about to begin when police arrived to shut it down. 事件发生后，几个其他事件也被取消，几乎没有任何解释。5月20日，一场在北京举行的露天音乐会(恰如其分地命名为“ What the Folkstival”)即将开始，警方赶到将其关闭。 A Japanese band’s concert in the southern city of Guangzhou was also cancelled. 一支日本乐队在南方城市广州举行的音乐会也被取消。 The uproar around Mr Li’s joke sounds absurd. But it is just the latest example of a toxic loop between China’s angry nationalists and its paranoid authorities. Someone unwittingly insults China. Bloggers denounce the mistake. State-run media weigh in to attack the offender. 围绕李先生笑话的喧嚣听起来很荒谬。但这只是中国愤怒的民族主义者与偏执的当局之间一个有毒循环的最新例子。有人无意中侮辱了中国。博主们谴责这个错误。国营媒体介入攻击罪犯。 Authorities punish them. Tougher standards are set for what is politically acceptable , squeezing China’s already cramped space for self-expression. 当局会惩罚他们。对于政治上可以接受的东西，中国设定了更严格的标准，从而挤压了中国本已狭窄的自我表达空间。 Several well-known figures have fallen victim to this cycle in recent years. In 2022 Luo Changping, a former investigative reporter, was sentenced to seven months in jail for insulting “heroes and martyrs”. 近年来，一些知名人士已经成为这种恶性循环的牺牲品。2022年，前调查记者罗昌平因侮辱“英雄烈士”被判入狱7个月。 He had used a pun on social media to suggest that Chinese soldiers who fought in the Korean war were stupid. 他在社交媒体上用了一个双关语，暗示参加过朝鲜战争的中国士兵是愚蠢的。 The year before, Zhang Zhehan, an actor, was purged from China’s film industry after a photo emerged of him standing outside the Yasukuni shrine in Tokyo, where war criminals involved with Japan’s invasion of China are commemorated. 此前一年，演员张哲汉在东京的靖国神社外站立的照片曝光后，他被从中国电影行业开除。靖国神社供奉着参与日本侵华战争的战犯。 Mr Zhang said he was just there to see cherry blossoms. 张先生说他只是去看樱花的。 The chilling effect is particularly visible in the entertainment industry. Comedians urge audience members not to record their shows. Performing abroad is not safe either. 这种寒蝉效应在娱乐业尤为明显。喜剧演员呼吁观众不要录制他们的表演。出国演出也不安全。 Wang Yuechi, a comedian who toured North America this year, has been deleted from Chinese social-media platforms because of politically sensitive material in his shows there. Wary venues ask performers to submit their jokes or songs in advance for approval. 今年曾在北美巡回演出的喜剧演员王月池，由于在中国的演出中涉及政治敏感内容，已被从中国的社交媒体平台上删除。谨慎的场所要求表演者提前提交他们的笑话或歌曲以供审批。 Industry associations urge actors and musicians to be more patriotic. 行业协会敦促演员和音乐家更爱国。 In response, performers self-censor and pledge to spread “positive energy”. But the government still keeps a close eye. One Shanghai district sends volunteers to theatres. They are trained in “political awareness” and must report anything untoward. 作为回应，表演者自我审查并承诺传播“正能量”。但政府仍然密切关注。上海某区派志愿者去剧院。他们受过“政治意识”的训练，必须报告任何不利情况。 One described how she follows the approved version of a play’s script on her mobile phone to be sure actors are sticking to their lines. “I can’t relax, for fear of missing something,” she told state media. The stress is worth it, though, she says. 其中一位讲述了她是如何在手机上按照经过批准的剧本演出的，以确保演员们坚持自己的台词。“我不能放松，因为害怕错过什么,”她告诉官方媒体。不过，她表示，这种压力是值得的。 “We’re doing our little bit to build Shanghai into the performing-arts capital of Asia.” “我们正在为把上海打造成亚洲的表演艺术之都而努力。” If people think things are going too far, it is hard for them to say so. Hu Xijin, a well-known nationalist commentator, denounced Mr Li’s dog joke, but said he should be given another chance. Mr Hu was scolded for being too soft. 如果人们认为事情走得太远，他们很难这样说。著名民族主义评论员胡锡进谴责了李先生的狗笑话，但表示应该再给他一次机会。胡先生因为太软弱而受到批评。 One woman in the coastal city of Dalian was bold enough to defend Mr Li on social media. She was detained by police. ■ 在沿海城市大连，一位妇女大胆地在社交媒体上为李先生辩护。她被警察拘留了。￭ Subscribers can sign up to Drum Tower , our new weekly newsletter, to understand what the world makes of China—and what China makes of the world. 订阅者可以在我们新的每周通讯《鼓楼》(Drum Tower)上注册，了解世界如何看待中国ーー以及中国如何看待世界。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/25/chinas-cancel-culture-is-nationalist-not-woke 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/25/chinas-cancel-culture-is-nationalist-not-woke 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Chaguan 茶馆 Why the Communist Party fears gay rights 为什么共产党害怕同性恋权利 Social conservatism plus paranoia about foreign infiltration prompts a crackdown 社会保守主义加上对外国渗透的疑虑促使政府进行了打击 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 T HESE ARE grim and lonely times for China’s gay communities, as the country’s LGBT support groups are forced to close, one by one. This campaign of repression reveals a lot about President Xi Jinping’s China, a paranoid place in which security agencies and ideological commissars enjoy ever-greater clout. 对于中国的同性恋群体来说，这是一个严峻而孤独的时代，因为这个国家的 LGBT 支持团体被迫一个接一个地关闭。这场镇压运动在很大程度上揭示了中国国家主席习近平治下的中国。在这个偏执的国家，安全机构和意识形态领导人的影响力越来越大。 For the same message is delivered, time and again, whenever policemen question gay-rights advocates (and sometimes their family members). It is heard when university chiefs punish students for handing out rainbow flags, or when officials press landlords to evict non-profit groups. 因为每当警察询问同性恋权利倡导者(有时是他们的家庭成员)时，同样的信息就会一次又一次地被传递出去。当大学校长因为学生分发彩虹旗而惩罚他们，或者当官员向房东施压驱逐非营利组织时，人们就会听到这种声音。 The message is that sexual minorities pose a political risk. True, some officials and state-backed scholars also call same-sex love an affront to mainstream Chinese morality, and a threat to young people whose patriotic duty is to marry and have more babies for the Motherland. 传递的信息是，性少数群体构成了政治风险。诚然，一些官员和国家支持的学者也称同性恋是对中国主流道德的侮辱，是对那些爱国责任是为祖国结婚生子的年轻人的威胁。 But activists report that, during interrogations, national security is emphasised much more than morality. Despite the political chill, gay people (as well as bars and dating apps) enjoy far more tolerance than they did a generation ago—but only if they keep it quiet. 但活动人士报告称，在审讯期间，国家安全的重要性远远超过道德。尽管政治气氛冷淡，同性恋者(以及酒吧和约会应用程序)比上一代人享受到了更多的宽容ーー但前提是他们要保持沉默。 In today’s China, forming a community is a graver offence than being gay. 在今天的中国，组建社区比同性恋更严重。 The latest casualty, the Beijing LGBT Centre, announced its closure on May 15th, citing forces beyond its control. Over 15 years in existence the centre had some high-profile successes, including a court victory in 2014 against a clinic offering electroshock therapy to “convert” gay patients. 最新的受害者，北京 LGBT 中心，于5月15日宣布关闭，理由是其无法控制的力量。该中心成立15年来取得了一些引人注目的成功，包括2014年在法庭上胜诉，一家诊所提供电击疗法来“转变”同性恋患者。 Activists talk of their cause being set back a decade or more. Within living memory, China denounced homosexuality as a mental illness imported by foreigners. Criminal penalties for gay sex were abolished only in 1997. During a first posting to Beijing in 2000, Chaguan heard a foreign government minister report, with disbelief, the claim of a Chinese counterpart that there were no gay men in China. 活动家们谈到他们的事业已经倒退了十年甚至更久。在人们的记忆中，中国谴责同性恋是外国人输入的一种精神疾病。对同性性行为的刑事处罚直到1997年才废除。在2000年第一次被派往北京期间，察官听到一位外国政府部长难以置信地报告说，一位中国同行声称中国没有同性恋男子。 Remarkable changes followed. Activists worked to persuade Chinese officials that social stability—the party’s great obsession—is strengthened by their activities. Some state media and institutions seemed to agree, offering praise for health-education campaigns or HIV -prevention work done by gay groups. 随之而来的是显著的变化。活动人士努力说服中国官员，他们的活动加强了社会稳定。一些国家媒体和机构似乎同意这一观点，赞扬同性恋团体开展的健康教育活动或艾滋病预防工作。 By 2019, your columnist could meet a gay couple in a Guangzhou cafe as they cheerfully described their plans to register as one another’s legal guardians. This baby step towards gay marriage took advantage of a law initially drafted with the elderly in mind. 到2019年，你的专栏作家可能会在广州的一家咖啡馆遇到一对同性恋伴侣，他们兴高采烈地描述他们计划注册成为对方的法定监护人。这一迈向同性婚姻的婴儿步利用了一项最初起草时考虑到老年人的法律。 Later it was adapted by creative lawyers to let same-sex couples take medical and some financial decisions for each other, should they grow infirm, undergo surgery or otherwise lose their faculties. 后来，创造性的律师改编了它，允许同性伴侣为对方做医疗和一些财务决定，如果他们变得虚弱，接受手术或以其他方式失去他们的能力。 That same year, over 180,000 members of the public submitted comments to legislators drafting new regulations on marriage in China’s civil code. Many suggested changing “husband and wife” to “spouses” as a first step towards same-sex marriage. 同年，超过18万公众向立法者提交了中国民法典中关于婚姻的新规定草案的意见。许多人建议将“夫妻”改为“配偶”，作为迈向同性婚姻的第一步。 A large number of petitioners were mobilised by legal-rights groups such as LGBT Rights Advocacy China. Since then, that petition drive backing same-sex unions has been cited by Chinese diplomats abroad as proof that their country allows free speech and bans discrimination against gay people, most recently at a hearing this February of a UN rights committee. What those smooth-talking envoys did not mention is that, back at home, civil society groups behind that self-same petition have been shut down, including LGBT Rights Advocacy China, which closed in 2021. 大量的请愿者被法律权利组织如 LGBT 权利倡导中国动员起来。此后，支持同性恋结合的请愿活动被海外的中国外交官援引为中国允许言论自由和禁止歧视同性恋的证据，最近一次是在今年2月联合国人权委员会的一次听证会上。那些油嘴滑舌的特使没有提到的是，在国内，支持这种自我同样请愿的民间社会团体已被关闭，包括2021年关闭的 LGBT 权利倡导中国。 Large companies have bowed to political pressures, too. In 2020 a state-owned airline, China Southern, fired a gay flight attendant seen kissing a male pilot on a surveillance video that went viral on social media. 大公司也屈服于政治压力。2020年，国有航空公司中国南方航空解雇了一名同性恋空中乘务员。监控录像显示，这名男子正在亲吻一名男飞行员。这段视频在社交媒体上疯传。 The airline told an employment court that the attendant might provoke mid-air disturbances if passengers recognised him from the video. In 2021 WeChat, the omnipresent messaging, e-commerce and social media app, closed dozens of accounts on LGBT topics, especially those run by university students. In recent years, regulators have banned “effeminate men” from television shows, and denounced “boys’ love” dramas, a genre involving thinly disguised homo-erotic themes. 航空公司告诉就业法庭，如果乘客从视频中认出他，乘务员可能会引起空中骚乱。2021年，无处不在的即时通讯、电子商务和社交媒体应用微信关闭了数十个关于 LGBT 话题的账户，尤其是那些由大学生运营的账户。近年来，监管机构禁止“娘娘腔男人”出现在电视节目中，并谴责“男孩之爱”剧，这种类型的剧集几乎毫无掩饰地涉及同性恋主题。 Gay groups worked hard to avoid trouble. As a young Malaysian studying in China, Raymond Phang helped to co-found Shanghai PRIDE , an organiser of gay celebrations and events. He and fellow volunteers grew used to assuring police that events would not feature political statements from foreign diplomats, or touch on such sensitive topics as Taiwan. No public parades or outdoor gatherings were attempted. 同性恋团体努力避免麻烦。作为一个在中国学习的年轻马来西亚人，Raymond Phang 帮助创立了 Shanghai PRIDE，一个同性恋庆祝和活动的组织者。他和其他志愿者逐渐习惯于向警方保证，这些活动不会出现外国外交官的政治声明，也不会涉及台湾等敏感话题。没有公共游行或户外集会的尝试。 The group eschewed slogans like “Gay Rights Now”, says Mr Phang. “We don’t do that in the mainland, it’s more about awareness, and ‘ LGBT is not a sickness’.” He calls Shanghai PRIDE lucky, because none of its volunteers or staff was taken into custody for 24 or 48 hours, as happened to some groups. Even so, the frequency of official visits became exhausting. In 2020, Shanghai PRIDE announced that it was cancelling all activities. Phang 先生说，该组织避免使用“现在同性恋权利”这样的口号。“我们在大陆没有这样做，更多的是为了提高认识，‘ LGBT 不是一种病’。”他说，“上海骄傲”很幸运，因为没有一个志愿者或工作人员像一些组织那样被拘留24或48小时。即便如此，官方访问的频率也让人精疲力尽。2020年，上海傲慢宣布取消所有活动。 Other groups were forced to close to secure the release of an organiser in detention, says a veteran campaigner now outside China. As spaces to talk about shared challenges vanish, the young are feeling isolated, he worries. “ LGBT student groups or associations have become very underground.” 目前在中国境外的一位资深活动人士表示，其它组织被迫关闭，以确保一名被拘留的组织者获释。他担心，随着谈论共同挑战的空间消失，年轻人会感到孤立。“ LGBT 学生团体或协会已经变得非常地下化。” Tyrannies distrust minorities 暴政不信任少数民族 Alas, in the party’s bleak logic, being vulnerable is grounds for suspicion. Early in the Xi era in 2012, Geremie Barmé, an Australian Sinologist, highlighted an essay published in the People’s Daily by Yuan Peng, an expert on America and later head of a think-tank affiliated with the ministry of state security. 唉，按照党暗淡的逻辑，脆弱是值得怀疑的。2012年习近平时代早期，澳大利亚汉学家白杰明(Geremie Barmé)在《人民日报》上发表了一篇文章，重点介绍了美国问题专家、后来担任国家安全部下属智库负责人的袁鹏发表的一篇文章。 Mr Yuan identified five groups that America might use to infiltrate Chinese society: rights lawyers, underground religious activitists, dissidents, internet leaders and—most chillingly— ruoshi qunti or “vulnerable groups”. A decade on, gay groups, feminists, labour activists and ethnic minorities are all treated as potential tools of subversion by a hostile West. In Mr Xi’s China, the marginalised represent a security threat, not an object for compassion. ■ 袁先生列出了五个美国可能用来渗透中国社会的团体: 维权律师、地下宗教活动家、异见人士、互联网领袖以及最令人不寒而栗的“弱势群体”。十年过去了，同性恋团体、女权主义者、劳工活动家和少数民族都被敌对的西方视为潜在的颠覆工具。在习治下的中国，被边缘化的人代表着安全威胁，而不是同情的对象。￭ Read more from Chaguan, our columnist on China: 阅读更多来自 Chaguan 的文章，我们的中国专栏作家: China learns to manage decline (May 11th) 中国学会应对衰退(5月11日) China’s new “Top Gun” normalises war with America (May 4th) 中国新的“壮志凌云”正常化与美国的战争(5月4日) China’s rulers play the law-and-order card, and lose (Apr 27th) 中国的统治者打出了法律和秩序的牌，结果输了(4月27日) Also: How the Chaguan column got its name 还有: 茶馆柱的名字是怎么来的 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/25/why-the-communist-party-fears-gay-rights 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/china/2023/05/25/why-the-communist-party-fears-gay-rights 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

China 中国 Sections 部分 Europe 欧洲 Middle East & Africa 中东和非洲 Business leaders fear that South Africa risks becoming a failed state 商界领袖们担心，南非有可能成为一个失败的国家 Downhill from rainbow nation :: CEOs have realised that running the country cannot be left to the ANC 从彩虹国家走下坡路: : CEO 们已经意识到，治理国家不能留给非国大 African governments say credit-rating agencies are biased against them 非洲各国政府表示，信用评级机构对他们有偏见 My ratings are better than yours :: They claim that pessimism about debt sustainability is unwarranted 我的评级比你的好: 他们声称对债务可持续性的悲观是没有根据的 Who will be Iran’s next leader? 谁将成为伊朗的下一任领导人？ Waiting for God’s choice :: Nobody knows who might grab the reins of power 等待上帝的选择: 没有人知道谁会掌握权力 Can Jordan fall in love with Saudi Arabia? 约旦会爱上沙特阿拉伯吗？ A wishful wedding :: Dynastic alliances don’t always last ❗ 🔄 China 中国 Sections 部分 Europe 欧洲

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Downhill from rainbow nation 从彩虹国度下山 Business leaders fear that South Africa risks becoming a failed state 商界领袖们担心，南非有可能成为一个失败的国家 CEOs have realised that running the country cannot be left to the ANC 首席执行官们已经意识到，治理国家不能留给非国大 May 22nd 2023 | JOHANNESBURG 2023年5月22日 | 约翰内斯堡 W HEN CYRIL RAMAPHOSA became South Africa’s president in 2018, business leaders were ecstatic. Here was one of their own: a pragmatic tycoon to fix the incompetent kleptocracy of Jacob Zuma. Yet five years on, bosses of large businesses are exasperated. CEO s from several different industries—such as Neal Froneman of Sibanye-Stillwater, a mining company; Daniel Mminele, the incoming chair of Nedbank; and Ralph Mupita, of MTN , a telecoms firm—have sounded the alarm. Could South Africa become a failed state? 2018年，当西里尔•拉马福萨(CYRIL RAMAPHOSA)成为南非总统时，商界领袖们欣喜若狂。这是他们中的一员: 一个务实的大亨，来修复雅各布•祖马(Jacob Zuma)无能的盗贼统治。然而，五年过去了，大型企业的老板们感到愤怒。来自几个不同行业的首席执行官已经敲响了警钟，比如矿业公司 Sibanye-Stillwater 的尼尔•弗朗曼(Neal Froneman)、即将上任的耐德银行(Nedbank)董事长丹尼尔•米内莱(Daniel Mminele) ，以及电信公司 MTN 的拉尔夫•穆皮塔(Ralph Mupita)。南非会成为一个失败的国家吗？ Already in 2023, blackouts by Eskom , the electricity utility, have surpassed those of 2022, hitherto the worst year on record (see chart). Businesses are planning for the total collapse of the grid. 2023年，电力公司 Eskom 的停电事故已经超过了2022年，这是有记录以来最糟糕的一年(见图表)。企业正在为电网的全面崩溃做准备。 “If this crisis continues, we will not be able to guarantee stable supplies of food, medicines and other essential goods,” wrote retail bosses in a letter to the president in February. “如果这场危机持续下去，我们将无法保证食品、药品和其它基本商品的稳定供应,”零售业老板们在今年2月致总统的一封信中写道。 Morale dipped further when the rand hit a record low after America’s ambassador earlier this month accused South Africa of covertly sending arms to Russia . 在美国大使本月早些时候指责南非秘密向俄罗斯运送武器后，兰特创下历史新低，士气进一步下滑。 CEO s have all but given up on Mr Ramaphosa fixing the problem himself. So firms are sending staff to government departments, including his office: a very South African solution. 首席执行官们几乎已经放弃了让拉马福萨先生自己解决问题。所以公司派员工到政府部门，包括他的办公室: 一个非常南非式的解决方案。 Those with means find alternatives to a failing public sector, paying for private health care, schools and security, and installing solar panels to power their homes. 那些有经济能力的人可以找到替代失败的公共部门的方法，支付私人医疗保健、学校和安全费用，并安装太阳能电池板为家庭供电。 Links between big business and the government began before 1994, when Nelson Mandela and his African National Congress ( ANC ) came to power. As international firms and capital left South Africa in the 1980s, the domestic groups that dominated South African business got bigger. 大企业和政府之间的联系始于1994年，当时纳尔逊 · 曼德拉和他的非洲人国民大会(ANC)上台执政。20世纪80年代，随着国际公司和资本离开南非，主导南非商业的国内集团变得更大。 By the end of the decade three conglomerates controlled companies accounting for 75% of the market value of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange ( JSE ). But some tycoons saw that white rule was unsustainable. So in 1985, defying the wishes of the apartheid regime, the chair of Anglo-American took a group to meet exiled leaders of the ANC . One delegate, upon meeting Thabo Mbeki, joked to the future president: “Welcome to the capitalist class!” 到2010年底，三大企业集团控制的公司占到南非证券交易所(JSE)市值的75% 。但一些大亨认为，白人统治是不可持续的。因此，在1985年，英裔美国人主席不顾种族隔离政权的意愿，带领一个小组会见了流亡的非国大领导人。一位代表在会见塔博 · 姆贝基时，对未来的总统开玩笑说: “欢迎来到资产阶级!” Those talks led to an unwritten deal. The ANC would drop its pledge to nationalise big companies. Business would embrace affirmative action and enrich a black elite including, most notably, Mr Ramaphosa. In other respects the basic structure of the South African economy changed little. 那些谈判导致了一个不成文的协议。非国大将放弃将大公司国有化的承诺。商业将拥抱平权法案，并使黑人精英阶层富裕起来，其中最引人注目的就是拉马福萨先生。在其他方面，南非经济的基本结构变化不大。 Many of the same big firms still predominate—and feel less competitive pressure than peers in other parts of the world. According to research by the IMF , mark-ups by publicly listed firms increased by 25% from 2000 to 2016. The average rise globally was 6%. Sustained mark-ups, namely prices above the marginal cost of production, imply a lack of competition. 与世界其它地区的同行相比，许多同样的大公司仍然占据着主导地位，它们感受到的竞争压力也较小。根据国际货币基金组织的研究，从2000年到2016年，上市公司的加价幅度增加了25% 。全球平均增长率为6% 。持续的加价，即价格高于边际生产成本，意味着缺乏竞争。 Problems have been thrashed out in private. In 2015, Mr Zuma tanked the rand by replacing a respected finance minister—who had helped block a multi-billion dollar nuclear-power deal with Russia—with an obscure MP . Captains of industry called a meeting with ANC bigwigs, including Mr Ramaphosa, who by then had amassed a fortune and returned to politics. Mr Zuma changed tack. 问题已经在私下讨论过了。2015年，祖马先生用一位默默无闻的议员取代了一位受人尊敬的财政部长，这位部长曾帮助阻止与俄罗斯达成一项数十亿美元的核能协议。工业巨头们召集了一次与非国大重要人物的会议，其中包括拉马福萨先生，当时他已经积累了一大笔财富并重返政坛。祖马先生改变了策略。 Yet today’s crises cannot be solved with a quiet word. Bosses typically cite three issues: power, logistics and crime. Last year power cuts may have reduced GDP by 7-8%; 2023 could be even darker. The blackouts caused South Africa to go from being the most reliable among MTN ’s 19 African networks at the start of 2022 to possibly the worst a year later. The largest supermarket chain says spending on diesel for generators cut profits by 7% in 2022. 然而，当今的危机不可能用一句悄悄话来解决。老板们通常会提到三个问题: 权力、后勤和犯罪。去年停电可能使 GDP 减少了7-8% ; 2023年可能更加黑暗。停电导致南非从2022年初 MTN 的19个非洲网络中最可靠的一个变成了一年后可能最糟糕的一个。这家最大的连锁超市表示，2022年用于发电机的柴油消费将使利润减少7% 。 Transnet, the state-owned firm that operates freight rail has, like Eskom, been battered by allegations of corruption and mismanagement. 运营货运铁路的国有公司 Transnet 和 Eskom 一样，也受到腐败和管理不善指控的打击。 Last year miners lost out on 300bn rand ($16bn) worth of exports, roughly a third of what they managed to sell abroad, according to Jan Havenga of Stellenbosch University, because they could not get their goods out of the country. 根据斯泰伦博斯大学的扬•哈文加(Jan Havenga)的数据，去年矿商亏损了价值3000亿兰特(合160亿美元)的出口产品，大约相当于它们出口总额的三分之一，原因是它们无法将产品运出南非。 Transnet moved less general freight—excluding minerals and metals—than at any time since the 1940s. Transnet 的一般货运量(不包括矿物和金属)低于上世纪40年代以来的任何时候。 The crook factor 骗子因素 Crime makes everything worse. In 2019 at least 183 infrastructure projects were disrupted by “construction mafia” demanding jobs and bribes. 犯罪使一切变得更糟。2019年，至少有183个基础设施项目被要求工作和贿赂的“建筑黑手党”破坏。 The theft of cables from Eskom, Transnet and passenger railways cost South Africa an estimated 50bn rand in 2022, roughly akin to the economic contribution of the wine industry. 据估计，2022年南非因窃取 Eskom、 Transnet 和客运铁路的电缆而损失了500亿兰特，大致相当于葡萄酒行业的经济贡献。 Andre de Ruyter, Eskom’s former head who courageously tried to root out graft, was nearly fatally poisoned in December. 安德烈•德鲁伊特(Andre de Ruyter)是 Eskom 的前负责人，他勇敢地试图根除贪污行为，但在去年12月几乎被毒死。 (Do not use a personalised coffee mug, he says, when asked if he has advice for his successor.) Western officials worry that South Africa is becoming to money-laundering what Silicon Valley is to venture capital. (他表示，当被问及是否对自己的继任者有什么建议时，不要使用个性化的咖啡杯。)西方官员担心，南非正在成为洗钱的对象，就像硅谷成为风险投资的对象一样。 In February the Financial Action Task Force, a global watchdog, put the country on its “grey list”, meaning that South Africa’s banks and authorities will come under greater scrutiny. 今年2月，全球监管机构金融行动特别工作组(Financial Action Task Force)将南非列入“灰名单”，这意味着南非的银行和监管机构将受到更严格的审查。 Mr Ramaphosa has repeatedly pledged to get a grip. Alas, he has failed. One CEO sketches out a two-by-two diagram, the sort beloved by management consultants. One axis is labelled “morality”, the other “competence”. Mr Ramaphosa is placed in the moral but incompetent square, whereas Mr Zuma is in the one marked immoral and incompetent. Ramaphosa 先生一再保证要控制局面。唉，他失败了。一位首席执行官草拟了一张二乘二的图表，这种图表深受管理顾问的喜爱。一条轴线被标记为“道德”，另一条轴线被标记为“能力”。拉马福萨先生被放在道德但无能的广场上，而祖马先生则被放在一个明显不道德和无能的广场上。 When Janet Yellen, America’s treasury secretary, visited South Africa earlier this year, CEO s asked her to talk sense into the president. 今年早些时候，当美国财政部长珍妮特•耶伦(Janet Yellen)访问南非时，首席执行官们请她向总统讲讲道理。 “Earlier this year we came to the realisation that we’re on the edge as a country,” says Martin Kingston, chair of Business for South Africa, a pan-industry body. 泛行业组织“南非商业”(Business for South Africa)主席马丁•金斯顿(Martin Kingston)表示: “今年早些时候，我们意识到，作为一个国家，我们正处于危机边缘。”。 “We realised the status quo was just not tenable.” Drawing on the experience of procuring protective gear and vaccines during the pandemic, business groups formalised what had previously been only ad hoc efforts to assist the government. “我们意识到，现状是站不住脚的。”借鉴大流行期间采购防护装备和疫苗的经验，商业团体正式确定了以前只是协助政府的临时性努力。 For several years firms have sent staff to help run government departments, paying their wages. Corporate lawyers work at the prosecuting authority; bankers toil in the department of industry. 几年来，公司一直派员工帮助管理政府部门，支付他们的工资。公司律师在检察机关工作; 银行家在工业部门辛勤工作。 Several secondees are involved in Operation Vulindlela (“Make Way”), a joint initiative of the presidency and finance department that is meant to beat bureaucratic inertia. 几名候选人参与了总统和财政部联合发起的旨在打击官僚主义惰性的“让路行动”(Operation Vulindlela，简称“让路行动”)。 Last year a new unit, sitting in the presidency, was set up to reform the electricity industry. In March Mr Ramaphosa said that the private sector would pay into the Resource Mobilisation Fund ( RMF ), a whip-round designed to hire outside consultants. The RMF may well pay for a private team to try to reform logistics, too. “The aim is to create a parallel system of institutions to make things work in the moment,” says Morris Mthombeni of Gordon Institute of Business Science, based in Johannesburg. 去年，为了改革电力行业，成立了一个新的部门，担任总裁。三月份，Ramaphosa 先生说，私营部门将向资源动员基金(RMF)支付资金，这是一个旨在雇佣外部顾问的激励机制。俄罗斯货币基金组织很可能也会出资组建一支私人团队，试图改革后勤保障体系。总部位于约翰内斯堡的戈登商业科学研究所(Gordon Institute of Business Science)的莫里斯•姆托姆贝尼(Morris Mthombeni)表示: “我们的目标是创建一个平行的机构体系，让事情顺利进行。”。 Business groups stress that their efforts will be transparent. And the approach offers a better chance of success than relying on cabinet ministers who are instinctively sceptical of the free market. 商业团体强调，他们的努力将是透明的。这种方法比依靠内阁部长们提供了更好的成功机会，内阁部长们本能地对自由市场持怀疑态度。 But critics still worry about how business is behaving. Organised business has, at least until recently, had a case of Stockholm syndrome, argues Ann Bernstein of the Centre for Development and Enterprise, a think-tank. 但批评人士仍担心企业的表现。智库发展与企业中心(Centre for Development and Enterprise)的安•伯恩斯坦(Ann Bernstein)认为，至少直到最近，有组织的企业还存在斯德哥尔摩综合征。 “They have covered up for a failing president.” It would be better if business leaders explained to the public the true extent of South Africa’s crisis. “他们掩盖了一位失败的总统。”如果商界领袖向公众解释南非危机的真实程度，情况会更好。 South Africans might listen. As part of a global poll published earlier this year by Edelman, an American consultancy, South Africans said they trusted business more than government, the media or NGO s. Indeed, the gap of 40 percentage points between trust expressed in business (62%) and in government (20%) was larger than in any of the other 27 countries polled. 南非人可能会听。美国咨询公司爱德曼(Edelman)今年早些时候公布的一项全球调查显示，南非人表示，他们更信任企业，而不是政府、媒体或非政府组织。事实上，商界(62%)和政府(20%)之间的信任差距比其他27个受访国家都要大。 Mr de Ruyter argues that business is still too timid when it comes to calling out corruption. After he was poisoned he was “disappointed” by the reaction of other business leaders, many of whom sent private messages but stayed quiet in public. “But that’s the culture,” he sighs. 德鲁伊特先生认为，企业在揭露腐败方面仍然过于胆小。在中毒后，他对其他商界领袖的反应感到“失望”，其中许多人发送了私人信息，但在公开场合保持沉默。“但这就是文化,”他叹了口气。 According to Mcebesi Jonas, a former deputy finance minister, “Until you recognise that the ANC is unfixable you can’t fix the country’s problems.” The ruling party, he explains, is “fundamentally statist”. The situation is so dire, he contends, that society could “explode at any minute”. 按照前财政部副部长 Mcebesi Jonas 的说法，“除非你认识到非国大是无法解决的，否则你无法解决这个国家的问题。”他解释说，执政党“根本上是中央集权主义者”。他认为，形势如此严峻，以至于社会“随时可能爆炸”。 Enter the bosses 老板们来了 “This is a 1985 moment,” argues Songezo Zibi, a former business-newspaper editor and corporate executive, who in April set up his own political party. “这是1985年的一个时刻,”曾任商业报纸编辑和企业高管的松格佐•齐比(Songezo Zibi)辩称。齐比在今年4月成立了自己的政党。 Though he concedes that no single firm has the power that the Anglo-American conglomerate did in the 1980s, he says business must show similar courage today. Rather than take part in yet more state-led initiatives, the top 40 or 50 CEO s should gather with unions and NGO s to thrash out a new “social contract”. No amount of technocratic assistance will reform the government, he insists. “Until you change the politics, you’re not going to solve the problems.” 尽管他承认，没有哪家公司拥有上世纪80年代这家英美联合企业集团所拥有的实力，但他表示，如今企业界必须展现出类似的勇气。与其参与更多由政府主导的举措，40或50位首席执行官应该与工会和非政府组织一起研究出一种新的“社会契约”。他坚称，再多的技术官僚援助也无法改革政府。“除非你改变政治，否则你解决不了问题。” Business is unlikely to embrace such proposals—and not just because they are fuzzy. “Whether you like it or not, the ANC is the government today and will be the largest party tomorrow [ie, after the next election, due in 2024]. It would be foolish not to talk to them,” says Mr Kingston. 企业界不太可能接受这样的提议ーー不仅仅是因为它们模糊不清。“不管你喜欢与否，非国大现在是政府，明天(即2024年下次选举之后)将成为最大的政党。不和他们交谈是愚蠢的,”金斯顿先生说。 Firms are already wooing Paul Mashatile, who became Mr Ramaphosa’s deputy in March and is his most likely successor. “He seems like a man we can do business with,” says a CEO . He omits to mention that the same was said of Mr Ramaphosa. 公司已经在争取保罗 · 马希蒂尔，他在三月份成为拉马福萨先生的副手，也是他最有可能的继任者。一位首席执行官表示: “他似乎是一个我们可以合作的人。”。他没有提到 Ramaphosa 先生也是这么说的。 The insourcing of help to Mr Ramaphosa’s office does, however, show that large firms no longer feel insulated from South Africa’s problems. Potential competitors are relatively scarce: the World Bank suggests that South Africa has one-third of the small businesses it should have, given its GDP per person. Much of the revenue earned by the 40 largest JSE -listed firms comes from outside South Africa. 然而，向拉马福萨先生办公室提供帮助的内包行为确实表明，大公司不再感到与南非的问题隔绝。潜在的竞争对手相对稀少: 世界银行指出，考虑到南非的人均 GDP，南非拥有本应拥有的三分之一的小企业。在约翰内斯堡证券交易所上市的40家最大的公司的大部分收入来自南非以外的地区。 But there are limits to what even the biggest firms can do to protect themselves. Mike Brown, Nedbank’s CEO , says that large firms will perhaps be able to ride out problems in the short run. “But in the long term our fates are inextricably linked to the success or failure of the South African economy,” he laments. 但是，即使是最大的公司为了保护自己也是有限度的。莱利银行首席执行官迈克•布朗(MikeBrown)表示，大公司或许能够在短期内安然度过难关。“但从长远来看，我们的命运与南非经济的成败密不可分,”他哀叹道。 Mr de Ruyter puts it more starkly. Over unpoisoned coffee, he worries about what will happen if the country continues on its downward trajectory. “You can put solar on your roof, live in a gated estate, have private security, own a holiday home. 德鲁伊特先生说得更直白。喝着未加毒的咖啡，他担心如果这个国家继续走下坡路会发生什么。“你可以在屋顶上安装太阳能，住在封闭的小区里，拥有私人保安，拥有一套度假屋。 But if 90% of the population are suffering, how is that sustainable?” ■ 但如果90% 的人口都在遭受痛苦，这怎么可能持续下去呢? ￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/22/business-leaders-fear-that-south-africa-risks-becoming-a-failed-state 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/22/business-leaders-fear-that-south-africa-risks-becoming-a-failed-state 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 My ratings are better than yours 我的收视率比你高 African governments say credit-rating agencies are biased against them 非洲各国政府表示，信用评级机构对他们有偏见 They claim that pessimism about debt sustainability is unwarranted 他们声称，对债务可持续性的悲观情绪是毫无根据的 May 25th 2023 | Kampala 2023年5月25日 | 坎帕拉 S INCE THE spring of 2022, no country in sub-Saharan Africa has issued a bond on international markets. The yields on African debt have climbed so high that most governments can no longer afford to borrow. The usual explanation is that investors are fleeing risky assets at a time of global uncertainty. But is African debt as perilous as foreign lenders assume? 自2022年春季以来，没有一个撒哈拉以南非洲国家在国际市场上发行债券。非洲债务的收益率已经攀升到如此高的水平，以至于大多数国家的政府再也负担不起借贷了。通常的解释是，在全球不确定性的时期，投资者正在逃离高风险资产。但是，非洲债务真的像外国债权人所认为的那样危险吗？ African governments say no. “The perception of risk continues to be higher than the actual risk,” argued Senegal’s President Macky Sall , speaking as chair of the African Union ( AU ), in a speech to the UN last year. He pointed an accusing finger at the credit-rating agencies. So did Ghana’s finance minister, Ken Ofori-Atta, in the early months of the covid-19 pandemic, as funds dried up and downgrades loomed. 非洲各国政府拒绝了。塞内加尔总统马基 · 萨尔去年在联合国发表演讲时以非洲联盟(AU)主席的身份表示: “人们对风险的认识仍然高于实际风险。”。他把矛头指向信用评级机构。加纳财政部长肯•奥福里-阿塔(Ken ofori-Atta)在2019冠状病毒疾病疫情爆发后的最初几个月也是如此，因为资金枯竭，评级下调迫在眉睫。 “Are the rating agencies beginning to tip our world into the first circle of Dante’s Inferno?” he asked. In that poem the monstrous Minos wraps his tail around his body as he sorts sinners into nine tiers of damnation. “评级机构是否开始将我们的世界推向但丁的《地狱》的第一层?”他问道。在那首诗中，可怕的米诺斯用尾巴缠住自己的身体，将罪人分为九层地狱。 Credit-rating agencies prefer to declaim in spreadsheets. They combine economic data with their own subjective judgment to assess whether a borrower is likely to repay on time and in full. Countries with lower ratings face higher interest rates on international markets. 信用评级机构更喜欢在电子表格中声明。他们将经济数据与自己的主观判断结合起来，以评估借款人是否有可能按时全额偿还。评级较低的国家在国际市场上面临更高的利率。 A sovereign downgrade also raises the cost of borrowing for firms and deters foreign direct investment. Only two African countries, Botswana and Mauritius, are now rated better than junk. 主权信用评级下调还会提高企业的借贷成本，阻碍外国直接投资。目前，只有博茨瓦纳和毛里求斯两个非洲国家的评级高于垃圾级。 Misheck Mutize, an economist studying the issue for the AU, casts doubt on the rating agencies. When they look at Africa, they ignore good news and downgrade at the first sign of trouble, he reckons. They take a “blanket approach” to risk that can ignore the differences between African countries. 为非盟研究这个问题的经济学家 MisheckMutize 对评级机构表示怀疑。他认为，当他们关注非洲时，他们忽视了好消息，一有麻烦的迹象就会下调评级。他们对风险采取“一刀切”的态度，可以忽视非洲国家之间的差异。 Their jeremiads often become a self-fulfilling prophecy as investors flee. 随着投资者纷纷逃离，他们的哀叹往往成为自我应验预言。 Rating agencies respond that they apply the same methods everywhere. African governments have low ratings because they collect little tax, borrow in foreign currencies and face other genuine obstacles. 评级机构回应称，它们在任何地方都使用同样的方法。非洲各国政府的评级较低，因为它们几乎不征税，借入外币资金，并面临其它真正的障碍。 A credit rating assesses risk; it does not indict policy, says Matt Robinson, who manages the team that rates African sovereigns at Moody’s Investors Service. Without trusted information, investors would put even less capital into African markets. 穆迪投资者服务公司(Moody’s Investors Service)为非洲主权国家评级的团队负责人马特•罗宾逊(Matt Robinson)表示，信用评级是评估风险的，而不是指控政策。如果没有可信的信息，投资者对非洲市场的投资将更少。 The debate hinges on how to weigh factors that are not easily measured, like the strength of institutions, or political will. Rating agencies say that expert discretion is where they add value. But their African critics worry that too much space is given to gut feelings. 争论的焦点在于如何衡量那些不容易衡量的因素，比如制度的力量或政治意愿。评级机构表示，专家的自由裁量权是它们增加价值的地方。但是他们的非洲批评者担心太多的空间给了直觉。 Studies find that agencies tend to look more favourably on their home country and on places which are culturally similar. The big three rating agencies that dominate the global market are all headquartered in America. Moody’s and S & P Global each has one African office, in Johannesburg; Fitch has none at all. 研究发现，评级机构往往更看好自己的祖国和文化相似的地方。主导全球市场的三大评级机构的总部都设在美国。穆迪(Moody’s)和标普全球(S & P Global)在约翰内斯堡各有一个非洲办事处，而惠誉(Fitch)则一个都没有。 A recent report by the UN Development Programme argues that Africa would save money if rating agencies were more “objective”. 联合国开发计划署(UN Development Programme)最近的一份报告指出，如果评级机构更加“客观”，非洲将节省资金。 It compares the ratings assigned by the big three with country scores from Trading Economics, a data platform which uses a different economic model to assess risk and leaves little room for discretion. The rating agencies, it turns out, are sometimes (but not always) glummer. 它将三大评级机构给出的评级与 Trading Economics 给出的国家评级进行了比较。 Trading Economics 是一个数据平台，使用不同的经济模型来评估风险，没有留下多少自由裁量的空间。事实证明，评级机构有时(但并非总是)情绪低落。 If ratings matched the Trading Economics scores, African governments could borrow more often and more cheaply: the cumulative value of these gains could be $75bn, the report estimates. 如果评级与 Trading Economics 的得分相符，非洲各国政府可以更频繁、更廉价地借款: 报告估计，这些收益的累计价值可能达到750亿美元。 That is not clinching evidence of built-in bias, because human judgment may detect risks that pure number-crunching misses. Markets seem to think so. 这并不是内在偏见的确凿证据，因为人类的判断可能会发现纯粹数字运算失误的风险。市场似乎是这么认为的。 Some studies find that investors demand an interest premium of one or two percentage points on African debt, above what would be expected from economic data and credit ratings alone. 一些研究发现，投资者要求非洲债务的利息溢价高出经济数据和信用评级本身预期的一个或两个百分点。 Ghana’s bonds began to sell off even before the rating agencies issued gloomier judgments, notes Stuart Culverhouse of Tellimer, a British research firm specialising in emerging markets. 专注于新兴市场的英国研究公司 Tellimer 的斯图尔特•卡尔弗豪斯(Stuart Culverhouse)指出，在评级机构做出更悲观的判断之前，加纳的债券就已经开始遭到抛售。 When Moody’s issued a downgrade last year, Ghana’s government complained of an “institutionalised bias against African economies”. Yet it has now suspended repayments on much of its external debt. 当穆迪(Moody’s)去年下调加纳评级时，加纳政府抱怨称，该国“对非洲经济体存在制度化的偏见”。然而，如今它已暂停偿还大部分外债。 The argument about credit ratings is one sign of Africa’s renewed assertiveness. From the distribution of covid-19 vaccines to the handling of economic crises, Africans complain they are treated like second-class citizens in the world order. 有关信用评级的争论，是非洲重拾自信的迹象之一。从分发2019冠状病毒疾病疫苗到处理经济危机，非洲人抱怨自己在世界秩序中被视为二等公民。 Their case against the rating agencies is unproven. But the Africans may have a point. ■ 他们反对评级机构的理由尚未得到证实，但非洲人或许说得有道理。 ￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/25/african-governments-say-credit-rating-agencies-are-biased-against-them 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/25/african-governments-say-credit-rating-agencies-are-biased-against-them 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Waiting for God’s choice 等待上帝的选择 Who will be Iran’s next leader? 谁将成为伊朗的下一任领导人？ Nobody knows who might grab the reins of power 没人知道谁会掌权 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 W HEN AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI , the charismatic leader of Iran’s Islamic revolution, died in 1989, hundreds of thousands of mourners packed the streets, fearful of what might happen next. Nowadays the mood is very different. For more than six months Iranians have been demonstrating en masse , chanting death to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the founder’s ailing successor as supreme leader. Yet no one knows who might fill his shoes when he goes—or whether the Middle East’s last theocracy will actually survive. 1989年，当伊朗伊斯兰革命领袖阿亚图拉的鲁霍拉·穆萨维·霍梅尼逝世时，成千上万的哀悼者涌上街头，担心接下来会发生什么。现在的情绪很不一样。六个多月以来，伊朗人民一直在集体示威，高喊着要杀死阿亚图拉 · 阿里 · 哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei) ，哈梅内伊创始人身体不适的继任者，成为伊朗最高领袖。然而，没有人知道当他离开时，谁会接替他的位置ーー或者中东最后一个神权政体是否会真正存活下来。 Despite several cancer scares, the 84-year-old may hang on for years yet. But doubts about his health—and the strength of his system, the Velayat-e Faqih , or rule of the cleric—are growing. Even religious-minded Iranians have begun to lose faith in theocracy. 尽管有几次癌症恐慌，这位84岁的老人可能还要坚持几年。但人们对他的健康状况ーー以及他的体系—— Velayat-e Faqih (即神职人员的统治)的力量ーー的怀疑正在增长。即使是有宗教信仰的伊朗人也开始对神权政治失去信心。 The regime is patently unpopular. Elections have long been a charade. Non-alignment in foreign policy looks increasingly phoney as the regime snuggles up to China and Russia. The succession is bound to shake the status quo, says Pejman Abdolmohammadi of the University of Trento in Italy. “It could speed up a full authoritarian takeover or spark a democratic transition.” 这个政权显然不受欢迎。长期以来，选举一直是一场游戏。随着朝鲜政权依偎在中国和俄罗斯身边，外交政策中的不结盟看起来越来越虚假。意大利特伦托大学的佩杰曼•阿卜杜勒-穆罕默迪(Pejman Abdolmohammadi)表示，继任者必然会动摇现状。“这可能会加速全面的威权主义接管，或引发民主转型。” On paper the succession should be smooth. As things stand, the supreme leader has the final say on all matters of state, making him far superior to the president, who is elected under undemocratic conditions every four years. 理论上，接班人应该是平稳的。就目前情况而言，最高领导人对所有国家事务拥有最终发言权，这使得他远远优于每四年在非民主条件下选举产生的总统。 The supreme leader, by contrast, is picked by an assembly of 88 clerics. If this turbaned elite is unsure whom to choose, a triumvirate composed of the president, the chief justice and a senior jurist decides and a referendum confirms their choice. 相比之下，最高领袖是由88名神职人员组成的议会选举产生的。如果这些戴着头巾的精英们不确定该选谁，那么由总统、首席大法官和一名资深法学家组成的三人小组将做出决定，全民公决将确认他们的选择。 In 1989 the triumvirate, including a son of Mr Khomeini, wangled Mr Khamenei, a middle-ranking cleric who was already the president, into the job behind the assembly’s back. A constitutional referendum duly followed. 1989年，三巨头，包括霍梅尼先生的儿子，哄骗哈梅内伊先生，一位已经是总统的中层神职人员，在议会背后的工作。宪法公投如期举行。 Three decades later, Mr Khamenei has shrunk from naming a successor. Meanwhile the regime has been rocked by demonstrations and dissent after the death last September of a young woman in the custody of the so-called morality police. 三十年过去了，哈梅内伊先生已经不再指定继任者。与此同时，在去年9月一名被所谓的道德警察拘留的年轻女子死亡后，示威和异议震动了政权。 The two prime contenders have even weaker religious pedigrees than Mr Khamenei’s. Ebrahim Raisi , formerly the chief justice and now an arch-reactionary president, spent a relatively short time studying in seminaries. “He’s only as qualified as a mosque imam,” says Mustafa Fahas, a Shia Muslim academic in Lebanon who monitors events in Iran. 这两位主要竞争者的宗教血统甚至比哈梅内伊先生还要弱。前首席大法官、现任极端反动派总统易卜拉欣•莱西(Ebrahim Raisi)在神学院学习的时间相对较短。穆斯塔法•法哈斯(Mustafa Fahas)是黎巴嫩的什叶派穆斯林学者，负责监督伊朗的事态发展。 Mr Raisi’s father-in-law is an ultra-conservative cleric who, among other things, wants to ban music. This alienates him from most Iranians. Raisi 先生的岳父是一位极端保守的神职人员，他想要禁止音乐。这使他与大多数伊朗人疏远。 The other front-runner is Mr Khamenei’s second son, Mojtaba. He runs the supreme leader’s office and is close to Hossein Taib, until recently the powerful intelligence chief of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ), the regime’s praetorian body. Mr Khamenei junior has lately been hailed on state TV as an ayatollah, the clergy’s highest rank, but has never held an official post and is rarely seen in public. Many regime stalwarts dislike the prospect of a dynastic succession: their revolution was founded on the overthrow of a shah. 另一位领先者是哈梅内伊先生的二儿子莫伊塔巴。他负责最高领导人的办公室，并与侯赛因•泰伊卜(Hossein Taib)关系密切。泰伊卜直到不久前还是伊斯兰革命卫队(IRGC)强大的情报负责人。小哈梅内伊先生最近在国家电视台被誉为阿亚图拉，神职人员的最高级别，但从未担任过官方职务，也很少在公众场合露面。许多政权的忠实拥护者不喜欢王朝继承的前景: 他们的革命是建立在推翻国王的基础上的。 The big new factor, compared with the situation in 1989, is the rise of the IRGC . It now has the whip-hand over the clerics. For three decades Mr Khamenei has built up its power as a defence against his rivals among the clergy—and against the risk of opposition in the street. The IRGC ’s membership in parliament has risen from 6% in 1980 (a year after the revolution) to 26% today, according to Chatham House, a think-tank in London, while clerical representation has dropped from 52% to 11%. The clergy used to post clerics to IRGC units; now the IRGC trains its own clerics and posts them to the seminaries, says Ali Alfoneh, an expert in America who wrote a book about Iran’s leadership succession. 与1989年的情况相比，最大的新因素是革命卫队的崛起。它现在对神职人员拥有控制权。30年来，哈梅内伊先生建立了自己的权力，以抵御他在神职人员中的对手ーー以及街头反对的风险。根据伦敦智库查塔姆研究所的数据，革命卫队在议会的成员比例从1980年(革命一年后)的6% 上升到今天的26% ，而教士代表比例则从52% 下降到11% 。过去，伊斯兰革命卫队的神职人员由神职人员担任; 现在，伊斯兰革命卫队培训自己的神职人员，并将他们派往神学院，美国专家阿里 · 阿尔弗内(Ali Alfoneh)说。阿尔弗内曾写过一本关于伊朗领导层继任的书。 As the IRGC has gained strength, many Iran-watchers think its commanders could keep the supreme leader in place but reduce him to a figurehead. It might prefer Mr Raisi as “a useful idiot who fits the bill”, says Saied Golkar, another Iran expert in America. The IRGC could conceivably take charge and junk clerical rule altogether, replacing it with an equally authoritarian alternative. The IRGC may be more pragmatic than the ruling clergy and try harder not to clash with the already disgruntled middle class. In foreign policy, however, it could be just as forceful, dropping Mr Khamenei’s vaunted fatwa against nuclear weapons and openly racing to build a nuclear bomb. While continuing to oppose America’s presence in the Gulf, it may nonetheless be more flexible in negotiating with “the Great Satan”. 随着伊斯兰革命卫队的力量不断壮大，许多伊朗问题观察家认为，其指挥官可以保留最高领袖，但把他降格为傀儡。美国的另一位伊朗问题专家赛义德•戈尔卡(SaiedGolkar)表示，伊朗政府可能更愿意让赖西先生成为“一个符合条件的有用的白痴”。可以想象，伊斯兰革命卫队完全可以接管并废除教士统治，用一个同样专制的替代方案取而代之。伊斯兰革命卫队可能比统治阶层的神职人员更务实，更努力地避免与已经心怀不满的中产阶级发生冲突。然而，在外交政策上，它可能同样强有力，放弃哈梅内伊先生对核武器的自吹自擂的追杀令，公开竞相制造核弹。尽管继续反对美国在海湾地区的存在，但在与“大撒旦”的谈判中可能更加灵活。 Some argue that the IRGC could impose a new social contract whereby Iranians would have more freedom to dress, drink and dance as they pleased. Iran might have a female education minister, the first in over 40 years. 一些人认为，革命卫队可以强加一个新的社会契约，让伊朗人有更多的自由，可以随心所欲地穿着、饮酒和跳舞。伊朗可能会有一位女性教育部长，这是40多年来的第一位。 (An Islamist firing squad killed the last one, in 1980.) Political freedom, however, would shrink still more. (1980年，一个伊斯兰行刑队杀死了最后一个。)然而，政治自由将进一步缩小。 That process may have begun. The morality police often leave unveiled women alone. But repression against dissent and crime is as harsh as ever. Executions rose last year by more than 80%, to 576. If an authoritarian IRGC regime were to bring back stability while relaxing personal mores, many Iranians might accept it. 这个过程可能已经开始了。道德警察经常不理会不戴面纱的女人。但是镇压异议和犯罪仍像以往一样严酷。去年，死刑执行人数增加了80% 以上，达到576人。如果一个独裁的伊斯兰革命卫队政权能够在放松个人习俗的同时恢复稳定，许多伊朗人可能会接受。 But true reformists would surely bid for a secular civilian system, rather than rule by either the IRGC or the clergy. Earlier this year, a former president, Muhammad Khatami, called for “a fundamental transformation”. 但真正的改革派肯定会争取建立一个世俗的文官制度，而不是由革命卫队或神职人员统治。今年早些时候，前总统穆罕默德•哈塔米(Muhammad Khatami)呼吁进行“根本性转变”。 A popular former presidential candidate, Mir Hossein Mousavi, broke his silence after 12 years of house arrest to call for a referendum on whether to keep Iran as an Islamic republic. 备受欢迎的前总统候选人米尔 · 侯赛因 · 穆萨维(Mir Hossein Mousavi)在被软禁12年后打破沉默，呼吁就是否保留伊朗伊斯兰共和国的地位举行全民公决。 Whatever the shape of the transition, it could well be messy. Only one thing is certain, says Mr Fahas, who is close to clerics within the regime. Mr Khamenei will be “the last real faqih ”. In other words, rule by clerics as envisaged by the 1979 revolution’s founding father will be over. ■ 无论过渡的形式如何，都可能是混乱的。只有一件事是肯定的，法哈斯先生说，他与政权内部的神职人员关系密切。哈梅内伊先生将成为“最后一个真正的法齐赫”。换句话说，1979年革命开国元勋所设想的神职人员统治将会结束。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/25/who-will-be-irans-next-leader 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/25/who-will-be-irans-next-leader 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 A wishful wedding 一个美好的婚礼 Can Jordan fall in love with Saudi Arabia? 约旦会爱上沙特阿拉伯吗？ Dynastic alliances don’t always last 王朝联盟并不总是持久的 May 25th 2023 | Amman 2023年5月25日 | 安曼 W HEN BRITAIN had an empire, Jordan’s King Hussein took British and American wives, among others. Seeking to keep a constituency closer to home happy, his son Abdullah, the present king, married a Palestinian. Now Jordan’s crown prince, another Hussein, is to marry a Saudi architect. 当英国拥有一个帝国时，约旦国王侯赛因娶了英国和美国的妻子。他的儿子、现任国王阿卜杜拉(Abdullah)为了让离家更近的选区保持快乐，娶了一位巴勒斯坦人。现在，约旦的王储，另一个侯赛因，将要嫁给一个沙特建筑师。 A century ago the Hashemites, who have always occupied Jordan’s throne, were the Middle East’s leading dynasty but later became poor relations to their oil-richer rivals in the Gulf. Some fear that Saudi Arabia under its bearish crown prince, Muhammad bin Salman, better known as MBS , wants to turn Jordan into a kind of fief. Two years ago Jordan’s security courts accused unnamed foreign powers (guess who?) of trying to replace Abdullah with his half-brother, Hamzah, a charge vehemently denied. 一个世纪以前，一直占据约旦王位的哈希姆王朝曾是中东地区的领导王朝，但后来却与海湾地区石油资源丰富的对手关系不佳。一些人担心，在看跌的王储穆罕默德•本•萨勒曼(Muhammad bin Salman)的领导下，沙特阿拉伯希望把约旦变成某种封地。两年前，约旦安全法庭指控了一些未具名的外国势力(猜猜是谁?)试图用他同父异母的兄弟哈姆扎(Hamzah)取代阿卜杜拉的指控遭到强烈否认。 Might the wedding curb MBS ’s ambitions, since the bride is related to the Sudairis, an influential clan that has often married into the House of Saud? And might the new alliance encourage the Saudis to pay off Jordan’s grinding debts? 这场婚礼是否会抑制住 MBS 的雄心壮志，因为新娘与苏戴瑞家族(Sudairis)有关系，这个有影响力的家族经常与沙特王室联姻？新的联盟是否会鼓励沙特偿还约旦沉重的债务？ The Jordanian royal family, including the crown prince’s mother, Queen Rania, has recently been careful not to display its wealth too showily. The wedding may be relatively modest. 包括王储的母亲拉尼娅王后在内的约旦王室最近一直小心翼翼地避免过于炫耀自己的财富。婚礼可能相对简单。 Gulf-watchers will note whether MBS attends. He has scant regard for many of his relatives, having imprisoned a bunch of them. He has a habit of embracing with one arm and casting adrift with the other. 海湾观察人士将注意到 MBS 是否会出席。他很少关心他的许多亲戚，因为他把他们中的一些人关进了监狱。他有一只手拥抱，另一只手随波逐流的习惯。 Earlier this month he hugged President Bashar al-Assad of Syria on his first visit to Saudi Arabia in over 12 years. Some say he then denied him a private audience and refused to promise any cash to rebuild the devastated country. 本月早些时候，他拥抱了12年来首次访问沙特阿拉伯的叙利亚总统巴沙尔 · 阿萨德。一些人说，他随后拒绝与他进行私下会面，并拒绝承诺提供任何资金用于重建这个遭受重创的国家。 One person who cherished Jordan’s link to Saudi Arabia is in jail. For years Bassem Awadallah ran King Abdullah’s court, before moving to the Saudi capital at Riyadh to advise MBS . But after he came back to Jordan he fell out with its regime and was sentenced to 15 years in prison there, allegedly for plotting with Hamzah. King Abdullah may need more than a marriage to make the Saudis more generous. 一个珍视约旦与沙特阿拉伯联系的人被关进了监狱。多年来，巴西姆•阿瓦达拉(Bassem Awadallah)一直负责阿卜杜拉国王(King Abdullah)的法庭，后来他前往沙特首都利雅得为 MBS 提供咨询服务。但他回到约旦后，与约旦政权闹翻，被判处15年监禁，据称是因为与哈姆扎密谋。阿卜杜拉国王可能需要的不仅仅是一场婚姻，才能让沙特更加慷慨。 “We’re becoming irrelevant,” laments a Jordanian former official. ■ “我们正在变得无关紧要,”一位约旦前官员感叹道。 ￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/25/can-jordan-fall-in-love-with-saudi-arabia 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2023/05/25/can-jordan-fall-in-love-with-saudi-arabia 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Middle East & Africa 中东和非洲 Sections 部分 Britain 英国 Europe 欧洲 Electric cars could be crucial for the EU to meet its climate goals 电动汽车可能对欧盟实现其气候目标至关重要 Electric cars :: But only if the charging infrastructure is ramped up much faster 电动汽车: 但前提是充电基础设施建设速度要快得多。 Who are the militias raiding Russia’s Belgorod region? ❗ 🔄 Raid on Belgorod :: They have links to Ukrainian military intelligence and, in some cases, to the far right 突袭别尔哥罗德: 他们与乌克兰军事情报部门有联系，在某些情况下，还与极右翼有联系 Women take over France’s powerful trade unions 女性接管了法国强大的工会 French unions :: Amid speculation that a departing (male) leader could go into politics 法国工会: 在猜测一位即将离任的(男性)领导人可能从政期间。 Europe has shaken off Putin’s gas embargo 欧洲已经摆脱了普京的天然气禁运 Charlemagne :: Now it needs to think about how to deal with China 查理曼: 现在它需要考虑如何与中国打交道。 Middle East & Africa 中东和非洲 Sections 部分 Britain 英国

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Electric cars 电动车 Electric cars could be crucial for the EU to meet its climate goals 电动汽车可能对欧盟实现其气候目标至关重要 But only if the charging infrastructure is ramped up much faster 但前提是充电基础设施建设速度要快得多 May 22nd 2023 | BERLIN 2023年5月22日 | 柏林 O N THE LAST weekend of April the Berlin showroom of NIO , a Chinese maker of electric vehicles ( EV s), was a happy place. On the first floor a family was celebrating a child’s birthday party. On the ground floor car enthusiasts inspected an SUV , a saloon and a racing car on display. The price tags were high (around €50,000, or $54,000, for the passenger car and almost €75,000 for the SUV ; the racing car was not for sale) but they seemed considerably lower than those of German rivals such as Mercedes or BMW —until you read the fine print. The battery is not included. It must be bought for €12,000 or €21,000, depending on capacity; or rented. 四月的最后一个周末，中国电动汽车制造商 NIO 在柏林的展厅里，是一个令人愉快的地方。在一楼，一家人正在庆祝一个孩子的生日聚会。在一楼，汽车爱好者们检查了一辆 SUV，一辆轿车和一辆赛车。价格很高(乘用车大约50,000英镑，或54,000美元，SUV 大约75,000英镑; 赛车是非卖品) ，但它们似乎比梅赛德斯(Mercedes)或宝马(BMW)等德国竞争对手的价格低得多——直到你读到附加条款。不包括电池。必须以12,000英镑或21,000英镑购买，视容量而定; 或租赁。 For many Europeans an EV is still unaffordable (an average petrol-powered passenger car sells for around €28,000), but sales of EV s keep growing rapidly . Fully battery-powered cars accounted for 12.1% of cars registered in the European Union ( EU ) last year, compared with 9.1% for EV s in 2021 and just 1.9% in 2019, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association ( ACEA ). A wider category, alternatively powered vehicles ( APV s), which lumps together pure electric and plug-in and non-plug-in hybrids, made up more than half the EU car market during the last quarter of 2022, with over 1.3m vehicles registered in total. It was the first time that APV s surpassed purely hydrocarbon-powered cars. 对许多欧洲人来说，电动汽车仍然是买不起的(一辆普通的汽油动力乘用车售价约为2.8万欧元) ，但电动汽车的销量仍在迅速增长。根据欧洲汽车制造商协会(ACEA)的数据，去年在欧盟注册的汽车中，全电池动力汽车占12.1% ，而电动汽车在2021年为9.1% ，2019年仅为1.9% 。2022年第四季度，纯电动车、插电式混合动力车和非插电式混合动力车的替代动力车(APV)占据了欧盟汽车市场的一半以上，注册总量超过130万辆。这是 APV 首次超越纯碳氢动力汽车。 “The EU is the global front-runner in the adoption of EV s,” stated a report last November by McKinsey, a consultancy. The union’s member states are themselves responsible for more than a quarter of the world’s EV production, and are big importers of them too. Forward-thinking carmakers and early-adopting consumers could create a world-leading EV ecosystem, which could generate new jobs and speed up progress towards climate goals—or so McKinsey enthuses. 咨询公司麦肯锡(McKinsey)去年11月发布的一份报告称: “欧盟在电动汽车的采用方面处于全球领先地位。”。欧盟成员国自身对全球超过四分之一的电动汽车产量负有责任，同时也是电动汽车的主要进口国。有远见的汽车制造商和早期采用电动汽车的消费者可以创造一个世界领先的电动汽车生态系统，从而创造新的就业机会，加快实现气候目标的进程。 The biggest stumbling-block to an electric-car future, though, is the charging infrastructure, which is not keeping pace with the increase in vehicle sales. According to ACEA, between 2016 and 2022 sales of electric cars in Europe grew almost three times faster than the number of charging-points that were installed there. 然而，电动汽车未来最大的绊脚石是充电基础设施，它没有跟上汽车销量的增长。根据 ACEA 的数据，2016年至2022年间，欧洲电动汽车销量的增长速度几乎是安装充电站数量的三倍。 Power to the people 权力属于人民 For electric vehicles to play their full part in the EU ’s ambitious goal of carbon neutrality by 2050, the EU will need to increase the number of public charging-points from around 300,000 to at least 3.4m and up to 6.8m by 2030, says another McKinsey report. That is a tall order. Up to 14,000 public charging-points need to be installed per week until 2030, says ACEA. The number is currently just 2,000 per week. 麦肯锡(McKinsey)的另一份报告称，要让电动汽车在欧盟雄心勃勃的2050年碳中和目标中发挥全部作用，欧盟将需要把公共充电站的数量从大约30万个增至至少340万个，到2030年增至680万个。这要求太高了。ACEA 说，到2030年，每周需要安装多达14,000个公共充电站。目前这个数字仅为每周2000人。 The EU will also need to ensure that chargers are more evenly distributed, to harmonise payment systems, and to provide many more fast-charging points for lorries. At the moment half of all EU charging-points are in the Netherlands (90,000) and Germany (60,000). A big country like Romania, which is six times larger than the Netherlands, has only 0.4% of all the EU’ s charging-points. 欧盟还需要确保充电器的分布更加均匀，协调支付系统，并为卡车提供更多的快速充电点。目前，欧盟一半的充电站位于荷兰(9万个)和德国(6万个)。像罗马尼亚这样的大国，面积是荷兰的六倍，只有欧盟所有充电站的0.4% 。 The imbalance in the charging infrastructure reflects the cost of EV s. Electric cars have a much higher market share in northern and western European countries, where average post-tax incomes are €32,000 a year, than in southern and eastern Europe, where the average is less than half that. 充电基础设施的不平衡反映了电动汽车的成本。电动汽车在北欧和西欧国家的市场份额要高得多，这些国家的平均税后年收入为3.2万欧元，而在南欧和东欧，这一数字还不到这一数字的一半。 Yet because of lower global prices for lithium and other materials needed for battery production, as well as government subsidies, the economies of scale of rapidly increasing production and stiff competition, especially from Chinese producers, prices for EV s are falling faster than some forecast. “By 2025 or 2026 most carmakers will be able to build petrol-powered cars and EV s for the same price,” predicts Daniel Röska of Bernstein Research. At the moment it costs about €3,500 less to build a petrol-powered Golf, a popular Volkswagen model, than an equivalent-size EV . 然而，由于锂和其它电池生产所需材料的全球价格下跌，以及政府补贴、产量快速增长的规模经济和激烈竞争(尤其是来自中国生产商的竞争) ，电动汽车价格的下跌速度超过了一些人的预期。伯恩斯坦研究公司(Bernstein Research)的丹尼尔•罗斯卡(Daniel Röska)预测: “到2025年或2026年，大多数汽车制造商将能够以同样的价格生产汽油动力汽车和电动汽车。”。目前，制造一辆汽油动力的高尔夫(一款流行的大众车型)比同等尺寸的电动汽车要便宜约3500英镑。 The charging infrastructure is likely to remain a sticking-point for longer. In March the European Commission announced a new law aimed at appeasing worries about gaps. 充电基础设施可能在更长时间内仍将是一个症结所在。今年3月，欧盟委员会(European Commission)宣布了一项新的法律，旨在平息人们对差距的担忧。 It sets targets for electric recharging and hydrogen refuelling, such as a requirement that for each battery-powered car in an EU member state, a power output of at least 1.3 kilowatt (k W ) must be provided by publicly accessible chargers. And for every 60km along the trans-European road network, a fast recharging station with a total of at least 150k W of capacity should be installed from 2025 onwards. 它设定了电力充电和氢燃料补给的目标，比如要求欧盟成员国的每辆电池动力汽车，必须由公众可获得的充电器提供至少1.3千瓦(kW)的电力输出。从2025年起，全欧公路网络沿线每60公里应安装一个总容量至少为150千瓦的快速充电站。 This is not nearly enough, says the European carmakers’ lobby. “Already today, a lack of charging and refuelling stations is severely hampering the market uptake of zero-emission vehicles,” comments Sigrid de Vries, ACEA ’s director-general. She predicts that “a significant infrastructure gap” will continue to limit the transition of Europe’s car industry. In response, some carmakers started building their own charging networks a while ago, led by Tesla. 欧洲汽车制造商的游说团体表示，这远远不够。ACEA 总干事 Sigrid de Vries 评论说: “如今，充电站和加油站的缺乏已经严重阻碍了零排放汽车的市场占有率。”。她预计，“巨大的基础设施缺口”将继续限制欧洲汽车业的转型。作为回应，一些汽车制造商不久前开始建立自己的充电网络，以特斯拉(Tesla)为首。 In January Mercedes announced it will put in place some 10,000 chargers worldwide by the end of the decade. 今年1月，梅赛德斯宣布将在2020年之前在全球推出约1万个充电器。 Fit for 55, a climate package with 13 proposals presented by the European Commission in July 2021, increased the ambition for the fight against greenhouse-gas ( GHG ) emissions to a reduction of emissions by 55% (compared with levels in 1990) by 2030 from the original 40% reduction proposed back in 2011. Transport is one of the keys to success. It accounts for 22% of the EU’ s total emissions. Within that, 70% comes from road transport; and road transport is the only sector where emissions have steadily risen since 1990. (The EU has reduced its overall carbon footprint by 30% since 1990, mainly by burning less coal to generate electricity.) In a report in October the commission said the EU was “on track to deliver on its climate ambition”, but that “swift action” was required to meet the 2030 goals as well as the 2050 net-zero ambition. That was why the Fit for 55 proposals were put forward. 2021年7月，欧盟委员会提交了一份包含13项提案的气候方案《适合55岁人群》(Fit for 55)。该方案将抗击温室气体(GHG)排放的雄心壮志，从2011年最初提出的40% 的减排目标，提升至2030年前减排55% (相比于1990年的水平)。交通是成功的关键之一。它占欧盟总排放量的22% 。其中，70% 来自道路运输; 道路运输是自1990年以来排放稳步上升的唯一部门。(自1990年以来，欧盟的碳足印总量减少了30% ，主要是通过减少燃煤发电。)欧盟委员会在10月份的一份报告中表示，欧盟“正在实现其气候雄心”，但要实现2030年的目标以及2050年的净零目标，就必须“迅速采取行动”。这就是为什么提出了55个合适的建议。 These proposals are still working their way through the union’s lawmaking process. 这些提案仍在工会的立法程序中进行。 Going for green 绿灯 Fit for 55 might sound like a low-impact yoga class for the middle-aged, but its range of plans could make Europe the world’s climate-policy leader, provided they are followed up. They include a ban on the sale of new internal-combustion engines ( ICE ) by 2035, and new rules that beef up the targets for emission reductions by 2030 for sectors covered by Europe’s emissions trading system ( ETS ). The ETS is a cap-and-trade scheme in which permits to emit carbon are allocated to aviation, energy-intensive industries and power generators, and can then be traded between them. The proposals also add transport and domestic heating to the existing ETS scheme. Moreover, new levies at the EU ’s borders for carbon-intensive imports, such as industrial materials, are part of the proposals, as well as the establishment of a “social climate fund” that will be used to help vulnerable households and small firms cope with the price increases of bringing heating and transport into the ETS . 适合55岁人群的瑜伽课听起来像是针对中年人的低强度瑜伽课程，但它的一系列计划如果得到跟进，可能会使欧洲成为世界气候政策的领导者。其中包括在2035年前禁止销售新型内燃机(ICE) ，以及针对欧洲排放交易体系(ETS)覆盖的行业制定新的规则，加大2030年前减排目标的力度。碳排放交易系统是一个总量管制和交易计划，其中碳排放许可被分配给航空、能源密集型行业和发电企业，然后可以在它们之间进行交易。这些建议还在现有的排放交易计划中增加了运输和家庭供暖。此外，在欧盟边境对工业材料等碳密集型进口产品征收新的关税，以及建立“社会气候基金”，将用于帮助弱势家庭和小企业应对将供暖和运输纳入碳排放交易体系的价格上涨。 At the end of April EU ministers approved six central laws of the Fit for 55 package, including the carbon border-adjustment mechanism and the social climate fund. Whether the EU will manage to meet its ambitious climate goals will now depend on member states’ willingness to deliver on the plans and to abstain from watering down any legislation that does not sit well with their voters, says Elisabetta Cornago of the Centre for European Reform, a think-tank in Brussels. 4月底，欧盟各国部长批准了“55个一揽子计划”中的6项核心法律，包括碳边界调整机制和社会气候基金。布鲁塞尔智库欧洲改革中心(Centre for European Reform)的伊丽莎白•科纳戈(Elisabetta Cornago)表示，欧盟能否实现其雄心勃勃的气候目标，现在将取决于成员国是否愿意兑现计划，以及是否愿意放弃削弱任何不符合其选民利益的立法。 Germany’s recent last-minute attempts to block the ban of new ICE powered cars from 2035 does not augur well. Germany insisted on allowing some new ICE cars to be built after 2035, so long as they are fuelled with carbon-neutral e-fuels, such as ethanol. Critics fear this will open the door to cheating. 德国最近在最后一刻试图阻止从2035年开始禁止新的 ICE 动力汽车，这不是一个好兆头。德国坚持允许在2035年之后生产一些新的内燃机汽车，只要它们使用乙醇等碳中性电子燃料。批评人士担心，这将打开作弊的大门。 Likewise, Italy’s right-wing government is now pushing back against the EU ’s plans to improve the insulation and energy efficiency of public and residential buildings. Buildings account for roughly 40% of the EU ’s energy consumption and 36% of its carbon emissions. Yet Italy’s housing stock is older and more dilapidated than that of many other countries, so meeting the targets will require extensive and costly renovations. 同样，意大利右翼政府现在也在反对欧盟提高公共和住宅建筑隔热和能源效率的计划。建筑物约占欧盟能源消耗的40% ，碳排放量的36% 。然而，意大利的住房存量比许多其他国家更老，更破旧，因此要实现这些目标，需要大规模和昂贵的翻修。 Italy’s construction association says that some 2m buildings will need renovation over the next ten years, at the eye-watering cost of €40bn-60bn a year, if it is to meet the EU ’s green homes plans. Italy’s government also backed Germany in its last-minute reversal on the end of the ICE , and criticises the proposal to slash industrial emissions. 意大利建筑协会表示，如果要满足欧盟的绿色住宅计划，未来10年将有大约200万栋建筑需要翻新，每年的成本高达400亿至600亿欧元，令人瞠目结舌。意大利政府还支持德国在洲际交易所会议结束前的最后一刻改变立场，并批评了削减工业排放的提议。 “Fit for 55 is entirely on track; that is, the main laws have literally just been voted and now need to be implemented,” says a Brussels official. Transport is in better shape than other sectors in terms of progress to net zero. 一位布鲁塞尔官员表示: “《适合55岁人群》完全在正轨上; 也就是说，主要法律刚刚投票通过，现在需要实施。”。就实现净零增长而言，运输业的状况好于其它部门。 Seven laws of the Fit for 55 package still need to be approved. But if they pass soon, the EU could stake a strong claim to be considered the world leader in the fight against climate change. ■ 适合55套的七条法律仍然需要批准。但如果它们很快获得通过，欧盟可能会强烈要求被视为抗击气候变化的世界领导者。￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com For more coverage of climate change, sign up for The Climate Issue , our fortnightly subscriber-only newsletter, or visit our climate-change hub . 要获得更多关于气候变化的报道，请注册气候问题，我们每两周一次的订阅通讯，或者访问我们的气候变化中心。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/22/electric-cars-could-be-crucial-for-the-eu-to-meet-its-climate-goals 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/22/electric-cars-could-be-crucial-for-the-eu-to-meet-its-climate-goals 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Raid on Belgorod 突袭别尔哥罗德 Who are the militias raiding Russia’s Belgorod region? ❗ 🔄 They have links to Ukrainian military intelligence and, in some cases, to the far right 他们与乌克兰军事情报机构有联系，在某些情况下，还与极右翼有联系 May 25th 2023 | KYIV 2023年5月25日 I N THE LATE afternoon of May 22nd footage emerged of two grinning pro-Ukrainian fighters in the midst of a cross-border raid into Russia. 5月22日下午晚些时候，两名亲乌克兰的武装分子在越境突袭俄罗斯的过程中露齿而笑的镜头浮出水面。 “The key to the border has been broken in half,” says one, quoting from “Everything is Going to Plan”, a cult anthem by Civil Defence, a Russian rock band. But the attack that the two men had helped engineer showed that, for Russia, things were very much not going to plan. “边境的钥匙已经被打破了一半,”其中一个人说，他引用了俄罗斯摇滚乐队“民防”(Civil Defence)的一首邪教圣歌《一切都按计划进行》(Everything is Going to Plan)中的话。但是这两个人协助策划的袭击表明，对俄罗斯来说，事情根本不在计划之内。 It included: an illegal crossing from Ukraine into Belgorod, a Russian region on the border, by tanks and infantry fighting vehicles; the death of at least one border guard; farm buildings on fire; a downed helicopter; traffic jams of fleeing locals; and the reported evacuation of a nuclear-arms facility several kilometres into Russian territory. 这些事件包括: 坦克和步兵战车从乌克兰非法越境进入俄罗斯边境地区别尔哥罗德; 至少有一名边境警卫死亡; 农场建筑起火; 一架直升机坠毁; 逃离的当地人交通堵塞; 据报道，一个核武器设施被疏散到俄罗斯境内几公里处。 Who was responsible for the incursion? 入侵是谁干的？ Members of two militias that oppose Vladimir Putin—the Russian Volunteer Corps and the Free Russia Legion—claimed to have “liberated” several border villages. The groups appear to be based in Ukraine, from where they mount their attacks. 反对弗拉基米尔•普京(Vladimir Putin)的两个民兵组织——俄罗斯志愿兵团(Russian Automotive Corps)和自由俄罗斯军团(Free Russia Corps)——的成员声称，他们已“解放”了几个边境村庄。这些组织似乎以乌克兰为基地，从那里发动袭击。 Russia says that the militias are a front for the Ukrainian army; Ukraine insists that they are composed of Russian dissidents. The reality is somewhere in between. Both militias do indeed recruit disaffected Russian nationals. Both also co-ordinate their activities with HUR , Ukraine’s military-intelligence agency. Yet the groups have no formal connection to the Ukrainian government. That allows Ukrainian officials to distance themselves from the militias’ operations, however implausibly. 俄罗斯说，这些民兵组织是乌克兰军队的一个前线; 乌克兰坚持说，他们是由俄罗斯持不同政见者组成的。现实介于两者之间。这两个民兵组织的确招募了心怀不满的俄罗斯国民。双方还与乌克兰军事情报机构 HUR 协调行动。然而，这些组织与乌克兰政府没有正式联系。这使得乌克兰官员能够与民兵组织的行动保持距离，尽管这种距离令人难以置信。 The Kremlin sought to downplay the embarrassing security breach. 克里姆林宫试图淡化这一令人尴尬的安全漏洞。 Russian officials described it as an attempt by Ukraine to “deflect attention” from what they claimed was their capture of the long-contested town of Bakhmut on May 20th (Ukraine says it still holds buildings and trenches on Bakhmut’s south-western edge). 俄罗斯官员称这是乌克兰试图“转移注意力”，因为他们声称5月20日他们占领了争夺已久的巴赫穆特河(乌克兰表示在巴赫穆特的西南边缘仍有建筑物和战壕)。 On May 23rd the Russian defence ministry claimed to have killed or expelled all the militia fighters from Belgorod, though it provided no evidence. 5月23日，俄罗斯国防部声称已经杀死或驱逐了别尔哥罗德所有的民兵战士，尽管没有提供任何证据。 A Ukrainian intelligence source offers a more realistic assessment. Two ideas underpinned the operation in Belgorod, he says. The first was to undermine Mr Putin’s domestic authority: if a strongman can’t guarantee security, what is the point of him? 一个乌克兰情报来源提供了一个更现实的评估。他表示，有两个想法支撑着他在别尔哥罗德的业务。第一是削弱普京先生的国内权威: 如果一个强人不能保证安全，那他还有什么意义？ The second was to pull Russian military reserves away from critical sections of the front line, in the run-up to a long-planned Ukrainian counter-offensive. 第二步是将俄罗斯后备军撤离前线的关键区域，以备乌克兰长期计划的反攻。 This is not the first foray by Ukraine-backed militias into Russian territory. 这不是乌克兰支持的民兵组织首次进入俄罗斯领土。 The Free Russia Legion and Russian Volunteer Corps were formed last year, under opaque circumstances, but came to prominence this March when they spearheaded an incursion from Ukraine into Bryansk, another border region. 自由俄罗斯军团和俄罗斯志愿者团是去年在不透明的情况下组建的，但今年3月他们带头从乌克兰入侵另一个边境地区布良斯克，引起了人们的注意。 Russia claimed that two civilians were killed in that attack, but offered no proof. 俄罗斯声称有两名平民在那次袭击中丧生，但没有提供任何证据。 The two militias differ in organisation and ideology. The Free Russia Legion is more chaotic and closer to HUR ; the Russian Volunteer Corps is better disciplined but has far-right leanings. Andrei Chernak, a spokesman for HUR , says that the “existential” danger Ukraine faces means that it cannot be too choosy about whom it collaborates with. Survival is Ukraine’s only focus, he said. “We are prepared to work with everyone.” ■ 这两个民兵组织和意识形态不同。自由俄罗斯军团更加混乱，更加接近 HUR; 俄罗斯志愿军团纪律更加严明，但是有极右倾向。HUR 的发言人 Andrei Chernak 说，乌克兰面临的“生存”危险意味着它不能太挑剔与谁合作。他说，生存是乌克兰唯一的焦点。“我们准备与每个人合作。”￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/25/who-are-the-militias-raiding-russias-belgorod-region 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/25/who-are-the-militias-raiding-russias-belgorod-region 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 French unions 法国工会 Women take over France’s powerful trade unions 女性接管了法国强大的工会 Amid speculation that a departing (male) leader could go into politics 人们猜测，一位即将离任的(男性)领导人可能会从政 May 25th 2023 | PARIS 2023年5月25日 | 巴黎 I N MANY RESPECTS , this has been a dreadful year for French trade unionism. A four-month struggle against pension reform has come to little. New rules that raise the retirement age from 62 years to 64 have been forced through parliament, without a direct vote, and written into law. 在许多方面，今年对法国工会来说是可怕的一年。反对养老金改革的斗争已经持续了四个月，但收效甚微。将退休年龄从62岁提高到64岁的新规定已被迫在议会通过，未经直接投票，并写入法律。 Yet France’s unions are upbeat. Why? 然而法国的工会却很乐观，为什么呢？ One reason is that all eight French unions have stuck together throughout. Another is that the public-sector workers who usually fill the streets have been joined by young people and private-sector employees. 其中一个原因是，法国所有八个工会始终团结在一起。另一个原因是，通常走上街头的公共部门工作人员也有年轻人和私营部门雇员。 Only 10.8% of French workers belong to a union, compared with 23.5% in Britain and 16.3% in Germany. But French unions derive their strength from their ability to pack protest rallies, as well as the strong statutory role they enjoy within firms. 只有10.8% 的法国工人加入了工会，而英国和德国的这一比例分别为23.5% 和16.3% 。但是，法国工会的力量来自于他们组织抗议集会的能力，以及他们在公司内部所享有的强大的法定地位。 The most arresting reason involves a change of leadership. In March, for the first time in its 128-year history, the CGT , a union with links to the Communist Party, elected a female leader, Sophie Binet. Aged 41, the one-time student unionist is as relaxed in a television studio as she is behind a megaphone. She also has a knack for the one-liner. 最引人注目的原因是领导层的变更。今年3月，与共产党有联系的工会总工会在其128年的历史上首次选出了女性领导人索菲•比奈(Sophie Binet)。这位曾经的学生会成员现年41岁，在电视演播室里就像站在扩音器后面一样放松。她也很会说俏皮话。 In April she mocked an address by President Emmanuel Macron, designed to calm matters after rioting and saucepan-banging protests, by suggesting that it “could have been written by Chat GPT ”. 今年4月，她嘲笑了美国总统埃马纽埃尔•马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)的一份演讲，暗示该演讲“可能是由 ChatGPT 撰写的”。马克龙的演讲旨在平息骚乱和敲打平底锅的抗议活动。 Green, feminist and from a white-collar union branch, Ms Binet has her hands full dealing with what has traditionally been a muscular union centred on heavy industry. But this is also what makes her an interesting pick. 绿色、女权主义和来自白领工会分支的比奈，正忙于应对传统上以重工业为中心的强大工会。但这也使她成为一个有趣的选择。 Ms Binet thinks she can still get the government to shelve the new pension rules. A poll suggests that 60% of the French want the protests to continue. Unions have called a 14th one-day strike for June 6th. The opposition is trying to get parliament to annul the new pension age. 比奈认为，她仍然可以让政府搁置新的养老金规定。一项民意调查显示，60% 的法国人希望抗议活动继续下去。工会已经为6月6日召开了第14次为期一天的罢工。反对党正试图让议会取消新的退休年龄。 The feminisation of the labour movement is also under way at the CFDT , France’s biggest union. After ten years, Laurent Berger will stand down on June 21st and hand over to his deputy, Marylise Léon. In this case, though, it is the departing Mr Berger who is the source of speculation. 在法国最大的工会 CFDT，劳工运动的女性化也在进行之中。十年后的6月21日，Laurent Berger 将卸任并移交给他的副手 Marylise Léon。然而，在这种情况下，即将离任的伯杰先生才是猜测的源头。 The son of a shipbuilder and a familiar face at every protest march, he has earned credibility on the left for standing up to Mr Macron and holding the unions’ alliance together. Paris swirls with rumours that he is considering a political future. 作为一名造船工人的儿子，他在每次抗议游行中都有一张熟悉的面孔，他反对马克龙先生，维系工会联盟，因此赢得了左翼的信任。巴黎充斥着他正在考虑政治前途的谣言。 Asked by The Economist , Mr Berger insists he does not want to go into politics “if it’s just about giving your name to put on a poster”. Yet he is clearly thinking hard about how to create a political space between the radicalised left and what he calls Mr Macron’s “hyper-centre”. 在接受《经济学人》采访时，伯杰先生坚持说，“如果只是为了把你的名字印在海报上”，他就不想从政。然而，他显然正在努力思考如何在激进的左翼和他所称的马克龙先生的“超中心”之间创造一个政治空间。 Mr Berger has a new book out about the politics of work. The French left, he says, needs to move on from the idea that “work is misery, alienation, exploitation” and think about how to make it fairer, and more valued. 伯杰先生出版了一本关于工作政治的新书。他表示，法国左派需要摆脱“工作是痛苦、异化和剥削”的观念，考虑如何让工作更公平、更有价值。 If Mr Berger does go into politics, he could be a formidable challenger to any centrist successor to Mr Macron. The union leader deplores the way the president imposed pension reform, outrage that taps into a strong popular feeling. 如果伯杰先生真的进入政界，他可能成为马克龙任何中间派继任者的强大挑战者。这位工会领袖对总统强制推行养老金改革的方式表示遗憾，这种愤怒利用了强烈的民意。 Yet he is thoughtful about how work culture needs to change. Mr Berger plans to take some time out to think about the left’s future, as well as his own. “Am I going to disappear?” he asks. “Evidently not.” ■ 然而，对于工作文化需要如何改变，他是深思熟虑的。伯杰先生计划抽出一些时间来思考左翼的未来，同时也思考他自己的未来。“我会消失吗?”他问道。“显然没有”￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/25/women-take-over-frances-powerful-trade-unions 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/25/women-take-over-frances-powerful-trade-unions 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Charlemagne 查理曼大帝 Europe has shaken off Putin’s gas embargo 欧洲已经摆脱了普京的天然气禁运 Now it needs to think about how to deal with China 现在，它需要考虑如何与中国打交道 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 W EAPONS COME in all shapes and sizes, from the Javelins that blow up Russian tanks to the F -16s Ukrainian aces may soon be flying. As his invasion of Ukraine got bogged down last year, Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president, reached for a weapon few imagined he would dare to wield: the throttling of deliveries from Russia’s vast gasfields to its main customers in Europe. 武器有各种形状和大小，从炸毁俄罗斯坦克的标枪到 F-16乌克兰 A 战斗机可能很快就会飞起来。随着去年入侵乌克兰陷入僵局，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔•普京(Vladimir Putin)拿出了一件几乎没人想到他敢使用的武器: 限制从俄罗斯巨大天然气田向其欧洲主要客户的输送。 Particularly for Germany and other countries that had piped the stuff straight into their homes and factories, doom-mongers predicted dire consequences—think double-digit falls in GDP , surging unemployment, not to mention freezing households. Yet Mr Putin’s weapon of mass economic destruction has turned out to be a dud. The crisis has all but passed, and far less harm came of it than expected. 特别是对于德国和其他直接将这些物质输送到家庭和工厂的国家来说，末日论者预言了可怕的后果ーー想想 GDP 出现两位数下降、失业率飙升，更不用说家庭被冻结了。然而，普京先生的大规模经济破坏性武器已经被证明是一个哑弹。危机几乎已经过去，造成的伤害比预期的要小得多。 Once they are done breathing a sigh of relief, policymakers should reflect on what this means as they ponder their next geopolitical challenge: how to “de-risk” the continent’s trade with China. 一旦他们松了一口气，政策制定者在思考下一个地缘政治挑战时，就应该反思这意味着什么: 如何“降低”非洲大陆与中国贸易的风险。 If Putin’s super-weapon fizzled, how much should Europe pay to rid itself of dependence on China for its imports of everything from rare earths to mobile phones? 如果普京的超级武器失败了，欧洲应该支付多少钱来摆脱对中国的依赖，中国从稀土到手机的进口无所不包？ In retrospect, the dependence built up by dozy policymakers and short-sighted businesses on Russian gas was reckless: gas accounted for a quarter of energy consumption in Europe, and Russia made up a third of that. 回想起来，昏昏欲睡的政策制定者和目光短浅的企业对俄罗斯天然气的依赖是鲁莽的: 天然气占欧洲能源消费的四分之一，俄罗斯占三分之一。 Yet the impact of the Kremlin turning off the tap (not entirely, as some Russian gas is still being piped west through Turkey and Ukraine, of all places) fell well short of the “gastastrophe” feared by some. 然而，克里姆林宫关闭自来水的影响(不完全是这样，因为俄罗斯的一些天然气仍然通过土耳其和乌克兰向西输送，而不是所有地方)远远没有达到一些人所担心的“灾难”程度。 Prices for natural gas in Europe have tumbled from over €300 ($324) per megawatt hour last summer to €30 in recent days. That is high, but back within the normal historical range. 欧洲天然气价格已经从去年夏天的每兆瓦时300欧元(合324美元)暴跌至最近几天的每兆瓦时30欧元。这个数字很高，但回到了正常历史范围内。 Even if prices jump once thermostats are cranked back up come winter, few expect them to spike very much. 即使到了冬天，一旦调节器重新启动，价格就会上涨，但很少有人认为价格会大幅上涨。 How has Europe gone from running out of gas to wondering where it will store the stuff? Benjamin Moll, Georg Zachmann and Moritz Schularick, three economists, recently compared the doom-mongers’ vision with reality in Germany. 欧洲是如何从天然气短缺转变为不知道该把天然气储存在哪里的？三位经济学家本杰明•莫尔(Benjamin Moll)、格奥尔格•扎克曼(Georg Zachmann)和莫里茨•舒拉里克(Moritz Schularick)最近将末日论者的愿景与德国的现实进行了比较。 Far from falling into an abyss, Europe’s largest economy suffered only the mildest of technical recessions. Some have put this down to luck, notably a mild winter in much of Europe reducing the demand for heating. 这个欧洲最大的经济体非但没有陷入深渊，反而遭受了最温和的技术性衰退。一些人将此归因于运气，尤其是欧洲大部分地区的暖冬降低了供暖需求。 In fact, the economists find, the weather was in line with recent years. If anything, other factors compounded the effect of missing Russian gas. French nuclear plants turned out to need unexpected maintenance at the worst possible time, for example. 事实上，经济学家们发现，这里的天气与近年来一致。如果说有什么不同的话，那就是其他因素加剧了俄罗斯天然气丢失的影响。例如，法国的核电站需要在最糟糕的时间进行意想不到的维护。 Rather, millions of firms and people in Europe have turned out to be unwitting heroes of making do. “Market economies have a tremendous ability to adapt to changing circumstances,” says Mr Moll, a professor at the London School of Economics. 相反，欧洲数以百万计的公司和员工在不知不觉中成为了勉强度日的英雄。伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)教授莫尔先生表示: “市场经济具有巨大的能力，能够适应不断变化的环境。”。 Households turned down the heating, at least in countries where politicians did not cap energy prices in a bid to placate voters. Factories once dependent on gas found ways to switch to other fuels. 家庭减少了供暖，至少在那些政客们不会为了安抚选民而限制能源价格的国家是这样。曾经依赖天然气的工厂找到了转向其他燃料的方法。 The most power-hungry bits of industry, such as those producing paper, cement, aluminium and some chemicals, were sometimes shuttered. Instead, those products were imported: effectively, an alternative way to bring energy to Europe’s shores. 最耗电的工业部门，如造纸、水泥、铝和一些化学品的生产部门，有时会被关闭。相反，这些产品是进口的: 实际上，是将能源带到欧洲海岸的一种替代方式。 The supply of energy also adapted. New piped gas was found, from Norway, Algeria or Azerbaijan. Given sky-high prices, ships laden with liquefied natural gas ( LNG ) flocked in. The installation of a new facility to unload such boats was thought to need years, yet Germany pulled it off in ten months. Mothballed coal-fired plants were revived, and renewables installed. Countries far and wide contributed to Europe’s energy pivot, too. 能源供应也适应了。在挪威、阿尔及利亚或阿塞拜疆发现了新的管道天然气。由于天价，满载液化天然气的船只蜂拥而至。安装一个新的设施来卸载这些船只被认为需要数年，但德国在十个月内就完成了。封存的燃煤电厂得以恢复，可再生能源得以安装。欧洲的能源重心转移也得益于广泛的国家。 It can be difficult for a factory in Spain to make do without gas, say. But a utility in Vietnam or China (where demand was muted by covid-19 lockdowns) might have more options, and its cargoes of LNG could be diverted to Europe. The effects can be brutal: Pakistan faced power shortages as its utilities could not outbid gas-starved Europeans. 比如说，西班牙的一家工厂可能很难在没有天然气的情况下生产。但越南或中国的公用事业公司(由于2019冠状病毒疾病封锁，需求受到抑制)可能有更多选择，它们的液化天然气货物可以转运到欧洲。其影响可能是残酷的: 巴基斯坦面临电力短缺，因为其公用事业公司的出价无法超过天然气短缺的欧洲人。 From Nord Stream to No Stream 从北溪到无溪 Europe will not soon come to depend on Russian gas again—not least because the Nord Stream pipeline that brought lots of it was blown up by an unknown party in September. 欧洲不会很快再次依赖俄罗斯的天然气，尤其是因为输送了大量天然气的北溪(Nord Stream)管道在去年9月被一个不知名的团体炸毁。 But the episode has spooked politicians into thinking about which other nefarious powers might one day hold them to ransom. Prompted in no small part by America, Europe wants to ensure it is not beholden to China. 但这一事件让政治家们开始思考，有朝一日哪些邪恶势力可能会勒索他们。在美国的大力推动下，欧洲希望确保自己不会受制于中国。 What good is defusing the Russian gas weapon if it is replaced with a similar dependence on Chinese solar panels? 如果俄罗斯的天然气武器被类似的依赖中国的太阳能电池板所取代，那么拆除它又有什么好处呢？ One coping mechanism is to replace imports with stuff made in Europe. This idea, popular with trade sceptics in France, gained ground during the pandemic, when the EU ran short of facemasks and paracetamol. Voters were promised that production would be “reshored”. Thus mask factories popped up in France (now gathering dust); a paracetamol plant is in the offing, backed by millions in state aid. 一种应对机制是用欧洲制造的产品取代进口产品。这个想法在法国的贸易怀疑论者中很流行，但在疫情期间，当欧盟缺少口罩和扑热息痛时，这个想法得到了支持。选民们得到承诺，生产将“回流”。因此，在法国出现了口罩工厂(现在正在积灰) ; 一家扑热息痛工厂即将建成，得到了数百万国家援助的支持。 The Russian gas imbroglio has increased the list of products statists think Europe should make at home. Targets have been set, Soviet-style, for various sectors. The largesse for microchip and battery plants can already be counted in billions. 俄罗斯天然气纠纷增加了统计学家认为欧洲应该在国内生产的产品清单。已经为各个部门设定了苏联式的目标。对微芯片和电池工厂的慷慨捐助已经可以用数十亿来计算了。 The other approach is to keep buying from abroad, but diversify. Businesses that would herd to a single country’s suppliers, often Chinese ones, can be nudged to new shores. 另一种方法是继续从国外购买，但要多样化。那些将蜂拥至一个国家的供应商(通常是中国的供应商)的企业，可能会被推向新的海岸。 Under the impetus of more liberal (ie, less French) forces in Brussels, this is being mooted: public tenders for renewables projects, for example, will be penalised if products are sourced from a country that supplies more than 65% of the EU market. That will induce firms to look beyond the usual Chinese factories. Because the effect is gradual and harnesses market forces, it will be far less costly. 在布鲁塞尔更加自由(比如，少一些法国)的力量的推动下，这个问题正在酝酿之中: 例如，如果可再生能源项目的公开招标产品来自一个供应欧盟市场65% 以上的国家，将受到惩罚。这将促使企业把目光投向通常的中国工厂之外。由于这种效应是渐进的，并且利用市场力量，因此成本将大大降低。 The Russian gas embargo that failed is a useful reminder that economies are more adaptable than politicians think. But recession was averted in part thanks to expensive bungs from government. All the more reason for the right lessons to be learned. 失败的俄罗斯天然气禁运提醒人们，经济体的适应能力比政治家们想象的要强。但经济衰退得以避免，部分原因在于政府的高额补贴。那就更有理由吸取正确的教训了。 It pays to think where your stuff comes from. But some ways of de-risking are smarter than others. ■ 想想你的东西是从哪里来的是值得的，但是一些降低风险的方法比其他方法更聪明。 ￭ Read more from Charlemagne, our columnist on European politics: 阅读更多来自 Charlemagne 的文章，我们的欧洲政治专栏作家: Meet the lefty Europeans who want to shrink the economy (May 18th) 见见希望缩减经济规模的左翼欧洲人(5月18日) Once Russia’s best friend in the West, Austria is facing trouble (May 11th) 奥地利曾经是俄罗斯在西方最好的朋友，现在却面临着麻烦(5月11日) Emmanuel Macron hopes to reinvent himself in 100 days (May 4th) 埃马纽埃尔•马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)希望在100天内(5月4日)彻底改头换面 Also: How the Charlemagne column got its name 还有: 查理曼大帝的专栏是如何得名的 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/25/europe-has-shaken-off-putins-gas-embargo 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/europe/2023/05/25/europe-has-shaken-off-putins-gas-embargo 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Europe 欧洲 Sections 部分 International 国际的 Britain 英国 To survive, Britain’s NHS must stop fixating on hospital care 为了生存，英国的 NHS 必须停止对医院护理的执着 Ward mentality :: Community care is the route to better health 病房心态: 社区护理是改善健康的途径 Britain’s semiconductor strategy shows the bind the country is in 英国的半导体战略显示出该国所处的困境 Dear as chips :: But a modest approach may be the sensible one 但是一个适度的方法可能是明智的 With Hollywood on strike, foreign shows enjoy the limelight 随着好莱坞的罢工，外国电视节目受到关注 Best supporting actor :: The strike spells disruption—and perhaps opportunity 最佳男配角: 罢工意味着破坏ーー也许还有机会。 Britain’s economy may grow by more than expected, but inflation is stickier 英国经济的增长可能超过预期，但通货膨胀更为严重 Bittersweet :: That makes the choice facing the central bank easier 苦乐参半: 这让央行更容易做出选择。 British voters want more immigrants but less immigration 英国选民希望有更多的移民，而不是更少的移民 Bagehot :: The government’s immigration policy is incoherent because voters are incoherent 白芝浩: 政府的移民政策是不连贯的，因为选民是不连贯的。 Europe 欧洲 Sections 部分 International 国际的

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Ward mentality 病房心态 To survive, Britain’s NHS must stop fixating on hospital care 为了生存，英国的 NHS 必须停止对医院护理的执着 Community care is the route to better health 社区护理是改善健康的途径 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 B RITONS STILL love the idea of the National Health Service ( NHS ). Its core principles—to provide health care that is comprehensive, universal and free at the point of delivery—are ones the public believes in. As it approaches its 75th birthday (in England) on July 5th, the service is still capable of providing outstanding care. 英国人仍然热爱国家医疗服务体系(NHS)的理念。它的核心原则ーー提供全面、普遍和免费的医疗服务ーー是公众所信奉的原则。随着7月5日(英格兰)75岁生日的临近，这项服务仍然能够提供出色的护理。 But the NHS is also in grave difficulties. The fever dream of winter is receding somewhat, but few will forget how many patients died waiting for ambulances and lying in hospital corridors. 但英国国民医疗服务体系(NHS)也面临着严重的困难。冬季的狂热梦想正在逐渐消退，但很少有人会忘记有多少病人在等待救护车和躺在医院走廊里死去。 Hospital waiting lists exceed 7m; efforts to curb them have been stymied by the largest wave of strikes in the service’s history. One in 11 posts in the NHS is vacant. 医院等候名单超过700万人; 限制他们的努力已经受阻于服务历史上最大的罢工浪潮。英国国民医疗服务体系中有十一分之一的职位是空缺的。 These problems cannot just be pinned on the aftermath of the covid-19 pandemic. Britain has fewer hospital beds per person than almost any other rich country, and fewer CT scanners. Its health outcomes lag behind its peers’. Among 18 rich countries, Britain has some of the worst five-year-survival rates for killer diseases such as lung, colon and breast cancers, and fares poorly on outcomes for heart attacks and strokes. Life expectancy in Britain lags behind most other rich countries. 这些问题不能仅仅归咎于2019冠状病毒疾病大流行的后果。英国的人均医院病床比几乎任何其他富裕国家都少，CT 扫描仪也更少。它的健康结果落后于同行。在18个富裕国家中，英国是肺癌、结肠癌和乳腺癌等致命疾病五年生存率最低的国家之一，心脏病和中风的后果也很糟糕。英国人的预期寿命落后于大多数其他富裕国家。 More than seven in ten of Britons now agree that their beloved NHS is “broken”. Politicians are increasingly willing to talk about the problems of the system. But there is less consensus about what should be done to fix things. Some argue that throwing more money at the NHS would be enough. Others think the time has come for root-and-branch reform. Others still believe that the existing system can be adapted and improved. Who is right? 超过70% 的英国人现在认为他们心爱的国民保健服务体系已经“崩溃”了。政客们越来越愿意谈论体制问题。但对于应该采取什么措施来解决问题，人们的共识较少。一些人认为，向 NHS 投入更多资金就足够了。其他人则认为，彻底改革的时机已经到来。其他人仍然相信现有的系统可以适应和改进。谁是对的？ It is true that more money will be needed. Since 2010 the NHS has done better than other departments but, save for a pandemic-related spike, the flow of money from central government has slowed (see chart 1). That has badly dented the finances of many NHS trusts, the organisational units which run health-care services. They balanced their books by raiding their capital budgets and by forgoing investment in medical equipment, buildings maintenance and digital records. 确实需要更多的资金。自2010年以来，英国国民健康保险制度(NHS)的表现优于其他部门，但是，除了与大流行有关的激增外，来自中央政府的资金流动已经放缓(见图表1)。这严重影响了许多 NHS 信托公司的财务状况，这些公司是运营医疗保健服务的组织单位。他们通过削减资本预算和放弃医疗设备、建筑维护和数字记录方面的投资来平衡账目。 A report in 2020 by the National Audit Office, which scrutinises public spending, found that across the OECD , a club of mostly rich countries, Britain invested the least capital per person in health care in 2015. The French and German systems respectively spent 21% and 39% more on health care per person than Britain did between 2010 and 2019, according to research by the Health Foundation, a think-tank. 2020年，负责审查公共支出的英国国家审计署(National AuditOffice)发布的一份报告发现，在经合组织(OECD)这个主要由富裕国家组成的俱乐部中，2015年英国在医疗保健方面的人均投资最少。根据智库健康基金会(Health Foundation)的研究，2010年至2019年间，法国和德国的人均医疗支出分别比英国高出21% 和39% 。 Nurses, junior doctors and others who have suffered a decade of real-terms pay cuts have taken to the picket lines. The underfunding has been most apparent in general practice, the first point of contact for most patients and the most cost-effective part of the system. 护士、初级医生和其他遭受了十年实际薪酬削减的人已经走上了警戒线。资金不足在一般实践中最为明显，它是大多数患者的第一个接触点，也是该系统最具成本效益的部分。 “General practitioners are paid £160 per year per patient: that is less than it costs to insure a gerbil,” points out James Morrow, a GP in Sawston, in Cambridgeshire. Many GP s have quit; many more intend to (see chart 2). 剑桥郡索斯顿的全科医生詹姆斯•莫罗(James Morrow)指出: “全科医生每位病人的年薪是160美元，比给一只沙鼠投保的成本还低。”。许多全科医生已经辞职; 更多的人打算辞职(见表2)。 But spending more money cannot be the only answer. At £160bn ($198bn) the annual budget the government gives NHS England to commission health services is already larger than the economies of all but four African countries. Health care is the biggest line item in the government’s budget: 38p of every pound the state spends on public services goes on the NHS . 但是花更多的钱并不是唯一的答案。英国政府给予 NHS 英格兰委托医疗服务的年度预算为1600亿欧元(合1980亿美元) ，已经超过了除4个非洲国家以外的所有经济体。医疗保健是政府预算中最大的项目: 国家在公共服务上的每一英镑支出中有38便士用于国民保健服务。 The King’s Fund, a think-tank, has calculated that if the 50 years from 2012 were to follow the trajectory of the previous 50 years, then Britain would be spending almost a fifth of GDP on the NHS and employing one-eighth of the working population. But by the 2060s Britain’s ageing population will resemble an ice-cream cornet rather than a pyramid. A narrowing cone of younger people, rather than a broad base, would not be able to provide that amount of labour and taxes. 英国国王基金会(King’s Fund)估计，如果从2012年开始的50年按照过去50年的轨迹发展，那么英国将花费国民生产总值(GDP)近五分之一的资金用于国民保健服务(NHS) ，并雇佣八分之一的劳动人口。但到本世纪60年代，英国的老龄化人口将变成一个冰淇淋小喇叭，而不是一个金字塔。由年轻人组成的一个不断缩小的圆锥体，而不是一个广泛的基础，将无法提供那么多的劳动力和税收。 Resources are already being wasted. A report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies, a think-tank, found last year that, despite getting more money and more staff, the NHS is less productive than it was before the pandemic. 资源已经被浪费了。智囊机构财政研究所(Institute for Fiscal Studies)去年发布的一份报告显示，尽管获得了更多资金和更多员工，但英国国民医疗服务体系的生产力不如疫情爆发前。 Some conclude that what the NHS needs is a radical overhaul. “It’s electoral suicide to go against the NHS ,” says Professor Stephen Smith, who used to run one of its trusts. “But we can’t go on like this.” 一些人得出结论，英国国民保健制度需要彻底改革。“与 NHS 作对简直是选举自杀,”史蒂芬 · 史密斯教授说，他曾经管理过 NHS 的一个信托基金。“但我们不能再这样下去了” No time for patients 没时间接待病人 One option for root-and-branch reform is to charge more patients at the point of use. 根本和分支改革的一个选择是在使用点向更多的病人收费。 Last September minutes leaked from a secret meeting between the chiefs of Scotland’s National Health Service showing that they had discussed the possibility of a “two-tier” system in which the wealthy would pay for their care. 去年9月，苏格兰国家医疗服务体系(National Health Service)负责人秘密会议的会议记录显示，他们讨论了建立一个“双层”医疗体系的可能性，在这个体系中，富人将为他们的医疗费用买单。 The introduction of small co-payments for overstretched services like general practice and accident & emergency ( A&E ) departments has also been mooted. 对于像全科医生和急诊部门这样超负荷的服务，引入小额共同支付也已经提出了讨论。 To the charge that rationing has no part in a universal health-care system, proponents riposte that it already exists. Prescriptions are free for some patients, for example, but not for others. And whereas other health-care systems rely on price to manage demand, the NHS uses hidden mechanisms: administrative hoops, snarling receptionists and endless waiting lists. 对于定量配给在全民医疗保健系统中没有一席之地的指责，支持者反驳说它已经存在。例如，对于某些病人，处方是免费的，但对于其他病人则不是。而其他的医疗保健系统依靠价格来管理需求，NHS 则使用隐藏的机制: 行政管理、咆哮的接待员和没完没了的等待名单。 Co-payments might curb demand, but they would do so by deterring patients from seeking care. Some people, particularly the poor, would not seek treatment when they need it. 共同支付可能会抑制需求，但它们会阻止患者寻求治疗。有些人，特别是穷人，在需要的时候不会寻求治疗。 In dentistry, where patients are already charged for appointments (with some exemptions), the government has ramped up patient charges while reducing its own funding over the past decade. 在牙科领域，病人已经需要支付预约费用(除了一些例外) ，政府在过去十年里增加了病人的费用，同时减少了自己的资金。 England now spends the lowest share of its health budget on dentistry of any country in Europe. The underfunded dental contract has pushed thousands of dentists into private practice. 英格兰现在在牙科方面的花费是欧洲所有国家中最少的。资金不足的牙科合同已经迫使成千上万的牙医进入私人诊所。 That has created a two-tier system in which the rich go private and those who cannot afford or find an NHS dentist resort to DIY treatments involving pliers and alcohol. 这就形成了一个双层体系，富人私下里看病，而那些负担不起或找不到 NHS 牙医的人则需要用钳子和酒精自己动手治疗。 Another suggestion for fundamental reform is that Britain should switch to a social-insurance model, similar to that operating in France, Germany or the Netherlands. At the moment the NHS is funded out of general taxation. Under a social-insurance model, employees and employers pay contributions into a not-for-profit fund which is then used to purchase health care. Advocates suggest that by earmarking money for the NHS , this system might make people feel more responsible for their own health. And by taking responsibility for financing health care away from the government, it might also reduce the temptation for politicians to meddle. 另一个关于根本性改革的建议是，英国应该转向社会保险模式，类似于法国、德国或荷兰的模式。目前，英国国家医疗服务体系的资金来自一般税收。在社会保险模式下，雇员和雇主向非营利基金缴纳保费，然后用于购买医疗保健。支持者建议，通过为 NHS 拨款，这个系统可能会让人们感到对自己的健康负有更大的责任。而且，通过从政府手中接过医疗保健融资的责任，这也可能减少政治家干预的诱惑。 Yet meta-analyses suggest that there is no relationship between a country’s choice of funding system and its health outcomes. And all health systems have their own challenges. In the Netherlands GP s spend almost three times as much of their time on admin as their British counterparts, who already feel they are drowning in paperwork. 然而，荟萃分析表明，一个国家对资金体系的选择与其卫生结果之间没有关系。所有的卫生系统都有自己的挑战。在荷兰，全科医生花在管理上的时间几乎是英国全科医生的三倍，英国全科医生已经觉得自己被文书工作淹没了。 Making changes of this magnitude would be a huge political gamble, too. A recent survey by Ipsos, a pollster, found that 90% of Britons believe the NHS should be free at the point of delivery, and 84% think the NHS should be funded primarily through taxation. Such consensus is not found on other issues. Trying to switch to a new model would be “like throwing rocks at Everest”, says Alastair McLellan, who edits the Health Service Journal, a website. “The NHS is a fixed fact. Clever policymakers work with that, not against it.” 做出如此重大的改变也将是一场巨大的政治赌博。民意调查机构益普索(Ipsos)最近的一项调查发现，90% 的英国人认为 NHS 在交付时应该是免费的，84% 的人认为 NHS 应该主要通过税收获得资金。在其他问题上没有达成这样的共识。阿拉斯泰尔•麦克莱伦(Alastair McLellan)是《健康服务杂志》(Health Service Journal)的编辑，他表示，尝试转向一种新模式“就像向珠穆朗玛峰扔石头”。“ NHS 是一个不变的事实。聪明的政策制定者与之合作，而不是反对它。” If ripping up the NHS ’s founding principles is not an answer, radicalism is nonetheless required. That is because the NHS is far too focused on one element of the health-care system—hospitals. Aneurin Bevan, the Labour politician who was the architect of the NHS , called hospitals the “vertebrae of the health system”. It is more accurate to think of them as sponges. 如果撕毁 NHS 的创立原则不是一个答案，激进主义仍然是必要的。这是因为 NHS 过于关注医疗保健系统的一个组成部分——医院。NHS 的设计者、工党政治家阿内林•贝文(Aneurin Bevan)将医院称为“医疗体系的脊椎”。更准确地说，它们是海绵。 In the three years to 2018-19, hospitals’ share of total NHS spending increased from 63% to 65%; the share accounted for by primary and community services fell from 20% to 19%. 在截至2018-2019年的三年中，医院在 NHS 总支出中所占的比例从63% 上升到65% ; 初级和社区服务所占的比例从20% 下降到19% 。 By current prices, 47% of all central- and local-government spending on health care in Britain goes on hospitals, compared with 44% of funding from comparable schemes in France, 36% in the Netherlands and 33% in Germany. Within the OECD , when comparing government-funded or compulsory schemes, only America spends a bigger share of its GDP on hospitals (see chart 3). 按照目前的价格计算，英国中央和地方政府在医疗保健方面的支出中，有47% 用于医院，相比之下，法国同类计划的资金支出中，有44% 用于医院，荷兰为36% ，德国为33% 。在经济合作与发展组织(OECD)中，比较政府资助或强制性计划，只有美国在医院上的花费占其 GDP 的比重更大(见表3)。 A hospital-focused model worked well enough when the NHS was mainly there to provide urgent treatment for infections and injuries. Those days are long gone. The latest available data showed that half of all GP appointments and 70% of inpatient bed days were taken by those with long-term conditions, such as diabetes. Family doctors and community nurses are best-placed to manage these chronic conditions, yet only 8% of the NHS budget goes to general practice, down from 11% in 2005-06. Hospitals are plainly not the places to prevent things which contribute to ill-health, like obesity. Britain is the third-fattest country in Europe; if everyone was a healthy weight, a recent study found, the NHS could save up to £14bn a year. 当 NHS 主要为感染和伤害提供紧急治疗时，以医院为中心的模式运作良好。那些日子早就过去了。最新的可用数据显示，半数的全科医生预约和70% 的住院病床天数是由那些长期的条件，如糖尿病。家庭医生和社区护士是处理这些慢性病的最佳人选，然而只有8% 的 NHS 预算用于全科医生，低于2005-06年的11% 。显然，医院不是预防肥胖等导致不健康的疾病的场所。英国是欧洲第三胖的国家; 最近的一项研究发现，如果每个人都有健康的体重，NHS 每年可以节省140亿英镑。 It gets worse. Hospitals are primarily paid on the basis of “activity”, which at times incentivises them to perform unnecessary treatments and not collaborate with other bits of the NHS . An estimated 10% of the cost of inpatient care in hospitals is spent looking after those in the final year of life, often on ineffective tests and treatments. 还有更糟的。医院的报酬主要基于“活动”，这有时会激励他们进行不必要的治疗，而不与 NHS 的其他部分合作。据估计，医院住院治疗费用的10% 用于照顾生命最后一年的病人，这些人往往接受无效的检查和治疗。 Meanwhile, general practice and community services are often funded by fixed budgets in exchange for broadly defined services. They have little incentive to reduce referrals to other services. 与此同时，一般做法和社区服务往往由固定预算供资，以换取定义广泛的服务。他们几乎没有动力减少转介到其他服务。 The system does not just suck patients into hospitals but also keeps them there for too long, in part because of a shortage of carers. More than one in ten beds are occupied by people who do not need them. 这个系统不仅把病人吸引到医院，而且让他们在医院里呆的时间太长，部分原因是缺乏护理人员。超过十分之一的床位被不需要它们的人占用。 To speed up delays in discharging patients, some hospitals are even giving money to cash-strapped councils to pay for social care. “If everything is focused on acute hospitals that have already spent nearly half of the entire NHS budget, the NHS will fail,” says Joe Harrison, who runs an acute trust in Milton Keynes. 为了加快病人出院的时间，一些医院甚至向现金短缺的地方议会提供资金，以支付社会医疗费用。“如果一切都集中在急性医院，已经花费了近一半的 NHS 预算，NHS 将失败，说:”乔哈里森，谁运行的米尔顿凯恩斯急性信托。 Such warnings are not new. Nor are calls to shift money away from crisis management in hospitals and towards community care and prevention. 这样的警告并不新鲜。要求将资金从医院危机管理转向社区护理和预防的呼吁也没有得到响应。 “We are often not invited to meetings as it is seen as predictable what we will say,” says Kamila Hawthorne, the chair of the Royal College of GP s. “We’re constantly banging the drum on funding.” That might invite scepticism that anything will change. But two big building-blocks are moving into place. 英国皇家全科医生学院(Royal College of GP)院长卡米拉•霍桑(Kamila Hawthorne)表示: “我们往往没有受到邀请参加会议，因为人们认为，我们会说些什么是可以预测的。”。“我们一直在大力推销资金。”这可能会引发怀疑，认为一切都会改变。但是两个巨大的组成部分正在移动到位。 One gives regions more freedom to improve the health of their own populations. The NHS has long suffered from top-downitis, with the centre issuing a blizzard of orders and performance metrics. 一是给予各地区更多的自由，以改善本地区人口的健康状况。英国国民保健服务体系(NHS)长期以来一直受到自上而下之风的困扰，该中心发布了大量订单和绩效指标。 In his book “Zero”, Jeremy Hunt, a former health secretary and now the chancellor of the exchequer, recalls asking one hospital how many instructions it received related to patient safety: the answer was 108 documents a year. 前卫生大臣、现任财政大臣的杰里米•亨特(Jeremy Hunt)在他的著作《零》(Zero)中回忆道，他曾问一家医院，它收到了多少与患者安全有关的指示，答案是每年108份文件。 Such bureaucracy is hugely counterproductive—a classic case of hitting the target but missing the point. 这种官僚作风极大地适得其反，是达到目标但没有抓住要点的典型案例。 The latest organisational shake-up of the NHS is therefore promising. In 2022 the Health and Care Act created 42 Integrated Care Systems ( ICS s), each covering an average of 1.5m people. They bring together NHS bodies, local authorities and charities to plan and deliver health and care services in a more joined-up way. Each ICS also chooses longer-term goals to work towards, such as reducing health inequality. 因此，英国国民健康保险制度(NHS)最新的组织结构调整颇有希望。2022年，《健康与护理法案》(Health and Care Act)创建了42个综合护理系统(ICS) ，每个系统平均覆盖150万人。它们将国民保健服务机构、地方当局和慈善机构聚集在一起，以更加协调的方式规划和提供卫生保健服务。每个 ICS 还选择较长期的目标来努力，如减少健康不平等。 Bits of the NHS have already worked out the value of co-ordination. “It’s just completely bloody obvious that we all need to work together,” says Sir Jim Mackey, the boss of Northumbria Healthcare Foundation Trust, which has been working with other partners for decades. But ICS s should make that more common. To take one example, on average homeless people use eight times as many health services as other people (mainly A&E and ambulances). Instead of trying to manage this demand, West Yorkshire’s ICS works to reduce homelessness—for instance, by helping tenants at risk of eviction to improve their mental health. “You have to start with the needs of the people, not structures,” says Rob Webster, its chief executive. 英国国民健康保险制度(NHS)的一些部门已经发现了协作的价值。“很明显，我们需要共同努力,”诺森比亚医疗基金会信托基金的老板吉姆 · 麦基爵士说，该基金会几十年来一直与其他合作伙伴合作。但是 ICS 应该会让这种情况变得更加普遍。举个例子，平均而言，无家可归者使用的医疗服务是其他人(主要是急症室和救护车)的8倍。西约克郡的 ICS 不是试图管理这种需求，而是致力于减少无家可归现象ーー例如，通过帮助面临被驱逐风险的租户来改善他们的心理健康。该公司首席执行官罗伯•韦伯斯特(Rob Webster)表示: “你必须从人们的需求着手，而不是从结构着手。”。 To be truly beneficial, ICS s will need to be made more “hard-edged”, says Axel Heitmueller of Imperial College Health Partners, a partnership of NHS providers. Data can already be used to measure a small set of population-health outcomes, such as healthy life expectancy. To incentivise improvements on these measures, he reckons ICS s should be able to “earn back” a proportion of the savings they make from helping people to get healthier and be allowed to reinvest this money. 帝国理工学院健康伙伴(Imperial College Health Partners)的阿克塞尔•海特穆勒(Axel Heitmueller)表示，为了真正实现效益，ICS 将需要变得更加“锋利”。帝国理工学院健康伙伴是英国国民健康保险制度(NHS)提供商的合作伙伴。数据已经可以用来衡量一小组人口健康结果，如健康预期寿命。他认为，为了激励这些措施的改进，ICS 应该能够“赚回”一部分节省下来的钱，帮助人们变得更健康，并被允许对这些钱进行再投资。 The second crucial building-block for reform is technology. There is an awful lot still to do in this area. Less than half of ICS s have a data platform to help them manage their populations’ health. Privacy concerns and bungled implementation have impeded efforts to join up patient records—and to realise the potential of the NHS, which is unusual in holding cradle-to-grave information on a national population, as one of the most valuable repositories of health data in the world. 改革的第二个关键组成部分是技术。在这个领域还有很多事情要做。不到一半的 ICS 拥有一个数据平台来帮助他们管理人口健康。隐私方面的担忧和拙劣的实施阻碍了整合患者记录的努力ーー以及实现 NHS 作为世界上最有价值的健康数据库之一的潜力。 NHS 在掌握全国人口从摇篮到坟墓的信息方面非同寻常。 But the NHS is taking steps towards a future of greater productivity and more personalised care. It has already had success rolling out virtual wards—for example, using pulse oximeters to monitor the breathing efficiency of recently discharged patients. 但英国国民保健服务体系(NHS)正朝着提高生产率和更个性化护理的未来迈进。它已经成功地推出了虚拟病房ーー例如，使用脉搏血氧计监测最近出院病人的呼吸效率。 It is carrying out breast-cancer scans in shopping centres and cataract surgery in car parks. In partnership with Our Future Health, a programme that aims to track the health of 5m Britons, blood samples are now being taken in the back rooms of Boots, a high-street pharmacist. 它正在购物中心和停车场的白内障手术进行乳腺癌扫描。通过与“我们的未来健康”(Our Future Health)合作，目前正在商业街药剂师 Boots 的密室里采集血液样本。“我们的未来健康”旨在跟踪500万英国人的健康状况。 In future the results will allow more targeted screening for cancer and the creation of individual risk scores. Genomic sequencing should help the NHS to spot diseases earlier, to the benefit of patients and taxpayers. 在未来，研究结果将允许更有针对性的癌症筛查和创建个人风险评分。基因组测序应该有助于 NHS 更早地发现疾病，从而使患者和纳税人受益。 Patients should soon be able to access personalised health advice on the NHS app, and receive nudges to eat better and exercise more, as already happens in Singapore, says Seb Rees of Reform, a think-tank. In future the app could become the new front door to the NHS , with options for self-referrals, self-monitoring and home testing. Through Patients Know Best, a software company, patients can already get access via the app to an individual patient record which shows them their results and their medical records. 智囊机构 Reform 的塞布•里斯(Seb Rees)表示，患者应该很快就能在 NHS 应用程序上获得个性化的健康建议，并得到改善饮食和增加锻炼的推动，就像新加坡已经发生的那样。在未来，这个应用程序可能会成为 NHS 的新大门，提供自我推荐、自我监控和家庭测试的选项。通过一家名为“病人知道最好”的软件公司，病人已经可以通过这个应用程序访问病人的个人记录，其中显示了他们的结果和医疗记录。 Fran Husson, a patient with multiple conditions, uses this service to make personalised plans for her care in conjunction with her consultant. “It has been transformative,” she says. Fran Husson，一个患有多种疾病的病人，利用这项服务与她的顾问一起为她的治疗制定个性化的计划。“这是一种变革,”她表示。 The NHS has a long list of problems to tackle. Britons are getting older: that will drive up demand for health care. Culture is critically important: the NHS suffers from too much respect for clinical hierarchies, too much fear of blame when things go wrong and too little focus on the patient. Retention of staff is poor. Politicians are still liable to meddle, and to funnel money to the latest crisis. NHS 有一长串的问题需要解决。英国人正在变老: 这将推高对医疗保健的需求。文化是至关重要的: 英国国民医疗服务体系(NHS)存在着对临床等级制度的过分尊重，在事情出错时过于害怕受到指责，以及对患者关注太少的问题。员工保留率很低。政客们仍然容易干预，并将资金导向最近的危机。 But community care, decentralisation and technology offer the NHS its best chance of delivering better results. That would also restore Britons’ faith in their most treasured institution. ■ 但社区护理、地方分权和技术为英国国民保健服务(nHS)提供了取得更好结果的最佳机会。这也将恢复英国人对他们最珍视的机构的信心。￭ For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in Britain, sign up to Blighty, our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 想了解更多关于英国最大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯《英国人》。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/25/to-survive-britains-nhs-must-stop-fixating-on-hospital-care 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/25/to-survive-britains-nhs-must-stop-fixating-on-hospital-care 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Dear as chips 亲爱的 Britain’s semiconductor strategy shows the bind the country is in 英国的半导体战略显示出该国所处的困境 But a modest approach may be the sensible one 但一个温和的方法可能是明智的 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 I T WAS THE underwhelming announcement the industry had been waiting for. On May 19th the government unveiled a £1bn ($1.2bn) decade-long dollop of funding aimed at boosting Britain’s semiconductor sector. 这是业界一直在等待的平淡无奇的声明。5月19日，英国政府公布了为期10年的10亿欧元(12亿美元)注资计划，旨在促进英国半导体行业的发展。 Industrial policy is back in vogue, especially when it comes to microchips, which power everything from washing machines to missiles. 工业政策重新流行起来，尤其是在微芯片方面，从洗衣机到导弹，微芯片为一切提供动力。 Spooked by shortages during the covid-19 pandemic, and worried that so much of the industry’s capacity is in Taiwan, which China regards as a rogue province, governments have been waving some very big chequebooks. 由于在2019冠状病毒疾病疫情期间受到短缺的惊吓，加上担心该行业如此多的产能在台湾——中国大陆将台湾视为一个无赖省份——各国政府一直在挥舞着一些巨额支票簿。 America has announced $53bn of subsidies and bribes over the next five years to boost domestic firms and lure cutting-edge chipmakers from Asia. The European Union has likewise promised €43bn ($46.2bn) in handouts, in the hope of doubling its market share by 2030. Other countries have big-spending plans of their own. 美国已宣布在未来五年内提供530亿美元的补贴和贿赂，以提振国内企业并吸引亚洲的尖端芯片制造商。欧盟(EU)同样承诺提供430亿欧元(合462亿美元)的救助资金，希望到2030年将其市场份额提高一倍。其它国家也有自己的大规模支出计划。 Britain’s announcement looks anaemic by comparison. The opposition Labour party accused the government of lacking ambition, and also pointed out that the money is backloaded, with just £200m due to be spent by 2025 and the rest doled out by 2033. Simon Thomas, the boss of Paragraf, a chip firm based in Cambridge, pointed out that even the full £1bn would not be enough to fund the cost of a single modern chip factory or “fab”. 相比之下，英国的声明显得苍白无力。反对党工党(Labour party)指责政府缺乏雄心壮志，并指出，这些资金已经积压了很多，到2025年将只有2亿美元用于支出，其余部分将在2033年发放。总部位于剑桥的芯片公司 Paragraf 的老板西蒙•托马斯(Simon Thomas)指出，即使是全部10亿欧元，也不足以支撑一家现代化芯片工厂或“晶圆厂”的成本。 But Britain’s government is in a bind. Its stated aims are to build up Britain’s chip industry, mitigate the risk of supply-chain disruption and bolster national security. Yet it cannot hope to match the spending power of supersized economies like America’s and China’s. 但英国政府陷入了困境。它宣称的目标是建立英国的芯片产业，减轻供应链中断的风险，并加强国家安全。然而，它无法指望与美国和中国这样的超大型经济体的消费能力相匹敌。 The chip industry is sufficiently globalised and full of high-tech bottlenecks that it is doubtful whether even a superpower can corral an entire supply chain within its borders. 芯片行业已充分全球化，并充满高科技瓶颈，因此，即便是一个超级大国，能否将整个供应链围在自己的国境内，也值得怀疑。 In any case, while Britain has a smattering of domestic chip firms, it lacks a big manufacturer, such as Intel, Samsung or TSMC , that could be a plausible national champion. 无论如何，尽管英国国内只有少数几家芯片公司，但它缺少一家像英特尔(Intel)、三星(Samsung)或台积电(TSMC)这样的大型制造商，而这些制造商可能成为全国冠军企业。 Instead, the idea—at least in theory— is to focus on cheaper interventions. That includes more money for research and development, and a focus on companies that design chips but leave the business of manufacturing to others. 相反，他们的想法(至少在理论上是这样的)是把重点放在更廉价的干预上。这包括增加研发经费，重点关注那些设计芯片但将制造业务留给他人的公司。 One well-known example of that “fabless” strategy is Arm, a British-headquartered firm whose chip designs power the world’s smartphones. 这种“无厂房”战略的一个著名例子是总部位于英国的 ARM 公司，该公司的芯片设计为全球智能手机提供动力。 Another aim is to position the country to benefit from technologies that might become big in the future. Ministers are keen, for instance, to promote compound semiconductors. 另一个目标是使国家能够从未来可能变大的技术中受益。例如，部长们热衷于推广化合物半导体。 These make use of elements other than silicon, such as germanium or selenium, which have different electrical properties. The strategy also mentions photonics, which uses light rather than electricity to do computational work. Britain has small firms active in both areas. 它们使用硅以外的元素，如锗或硒，这些元素具有不同的电学性质。该策略还提到了光子学，它使用光而不是电来做计算工作。英国在这两个领域都有活跃的小公司。 National security is to be pursued partly via diplomacy. On May 18th, on a visit to Japan, Rishi Sunak, the prime minister, announced a new partnership to bolster supply chains. (Japan boasts several big suppliers of chip-making equipment.) 国家安全在一定程度上要通过外交手段来实现。5月18日，在访问日本期间，日本首相 Rishi Sunak 宣布建立新的合作伙伴关系以加强供应链。(日本拥有数家大型芯片制造设备供应商。) Some commentators think the government’s understated approach has merit. 一些评论人士认为，政府的低调做法有其道理。 Malcolm Penn, who runs Future Horizons, a chip-industry consultancy, points out that the worldwide wave of subsidies to the industry now amounts to around $50bn a year, or nearly half the industry’s capital expenditure. 芯片行业咨询公司 Future Horizons 的负责人马尔科姆•佩恩(Malcolm Penn)指出，目前全球对芯片行业的补贴浪潮每年达到约500亿美元，接近该行业资本支出的一半。 That wall of money, he says, risks creating a long-term glut in capacity that could eventually leave state-backed factories struggling. 他表示，巨额资金可能导致产能长期过剩，最终可能导致政府支持的工厂陷入困境。 And the British government’s fingers have been burned before. In the 1970s it funded the development of a firm called Inmos, whose chips anticipated many modern trends. That was not enough to save it. The firm was eventually swallowed up by STMicroelectronics, a Dutch firm. 英国政府的手指曾经被烧伤过。在20世纪70年代，它资助了一家名为 Inmos 的公司的发展，该公司的芯片预见了许多现代趋势。这还不足以拯救它。该公司最终被一家名为“意法半导体”的荷兰公司吞并。 Subsidies powered the building of chip factories in Scotland and Wales during the 1980s and 1990s. Most have now closed. 上世纪80年代和90年代，补贴为苏格兰和威尔士芯片工厂的建设提供了动力。 Can the government’s latest, deliberately modest strategy move the needle? Even its defenders concede it is unlikely to transform things. But, says Mr Penn, it is probably more sensible than trying to match the financial firepower of economies ten times Britain’s size. 政府最新的、刻意保守的战略能否扭转乾坤？就连它的捍卫者也承认，这不太可能改变局面。但是，佩恩先生说，这可能比试图匹配十倍于英国的经济规模的财政火力更为明智。 “Just bribing someone to build a factory: that’s probably not the best strategy,” he says. ■ 他说: “只是贿赂某人来建工厂: 这可能不是最好的策略。”￭ For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in Britain, sign up to Blighty, our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 想了解更多关于英国最大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯《英国人》。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/25/britains-semiconductor-strategy-shows-the-bind-the-country-is-in 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/25/britains-semiconductor-strategy-shows-the-bind-the-country-is-in 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Best supporting actor 最佳男配角 With Hollywood on strike, foreign shows enjoy the limelight 随着好莱坞的罢工，外国电视节目受到关注 The strike spells disruption—and perhaps opportunity 罢工意味着破坏，也许还意味着机会 May 21st 2023 | PINEWOOD STUDIOS 2023年5月21日 | 松林制片厂 I NDIANA JONES has fought his way through jungles, snakepits and booby-trapped temples. But his latest cinematic adventure, due from Disney next month, took place just off the M 25 motorway near Slough. Pinewood Studios, where “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny” was shot, is not the only place in Britain to star at the movies. 印第安纳 · 琼斯曾在丛林、蛇穴和布满陷阱的寺庙中奋战。但是他最近的一次电影冒险，将于下个月在迪斯尼公司拍摄，就发生在斯劳附近的 M25高速公路上。电影《夺宝奇兵》(Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny)就是在这个松林制片厂拍摄的，它并不是英国唯一一个出演电影的地方。 Barbieland, the bright-pink setting for the forthcoming “Barbie” movie, was created on the outskirts of Watford, where Warner Bros has its giant Leavesden Studios. “Andor”, the latest instalment in the Star Wars saga, was shot in locations around England and Scotland. 即将上映的电影《芭比娃娃》(Barbie)的背景是粉红色的芭比园(Barbieland) ，它位于沃特福德郊区，华纳兄弟(Warner Bros)在那里拥有自己的巨型华纳兄弟利维斯登制片厂。《安多尔》是《星球大战》系列的最新一部，在英格兰和苏格兰各地拍摄。 Britain is one of the world’s largest centres of video production. In the year to April, 1,788 new TV series were ordered by a broadcaster or streaming platform based there—more than in any country bar America and Japan, according to research by Ampere Analysis (see chart). As well as these local commissions, the bulk of which are “unscripted” (a category that includes reality TV , sport and the like), Britain hosts many high-profile—and valuable—scripted productions by American studios, which come for the talent, tax breaks and high-tech facilities. 英国是世界上最大的视频制作中心之一。安培分析(Ampere Analysis)的研究显示，在截至今年4月的一年里，有1788部新电视剧被当地的广播公司或流媒体平台订购，超过除美国和日本以外的任何国家。除了这些地方委员会(其中大部分是“非剧本”的(包括真人秀节目、体育节目等)之外，英国还有许多由美国电影公司制作的高调且有价值的剧本作品，它们是为了人才、税收优惠和高科技设施而来。 As an industrywide arms race for streaming content forced Hollywood studios to go abroad in search of production capacity, Britain was one of the winners. But its popularity with American studios means it will also be among the losers of the writers’ strike that has brought Hollywood to a halt. The Writers Guild of America ( WGA ) downed pens on May 2nd, complaining that the cut-throat economics of streaming had eroded writers’ pay and conditions. New scripts, and thus most new scripted productions, are on hold. 随着全行业对流媒体内容的军备竞赛迫使好莱坞电影公司到海外寻找制作能力，英国成为了赢家之一。但它在美国电影公司中的受欢迎程度意味着它也将成为导致好莱坞停滞的编剧罢工的失败者之一。5月2日，美国编剧工会(WGA)放弃了写作，抱怨流媒体的残酷经济侵蚀了编剧的薪水和工作条件。新的脚本，因此大多数新的脚本产品，被搁置。 Though there is no strike in Britain, filming will be disrupted. 虽然英国没有罢工，但是电影拍摄将会中断。 American-made shows shot on British soil may continue only if their scripts are finalised—a tougher condition than it sounds, as big productions typically have writers on hand to fiddle with the script during filming. 在英国本土拍摄的美国制作的电视剧只有在剧本定稿后才能继续拍摄，这比听起来要困难得多，因为大制作通常会有编剧在场，在拍摄期间对剧本进行修改。 British-made shows commissioned by American firms can go ahead if contracts are already signed and under British law. But any new deals are off-limits—at least for anyone who wants to work in Hollywood again. 如果合同已经签订并且符合英国法律，美国公司委托的英国制作的节目可以继续进行。但任何新交易都是禁区ーー至少对那些想再次在好莱坞工作的人来说是这样。 The Writers’ Guild of Great Britain warns local writers against working for American studios during the strike: “You risk being blacklisted by the WGA , which could seriously damage your long-term career.” 英国作家协会警告当地作家不要在罢工期间为美国电影公司工作: “你有可能被 WGA 列入黑名单，这会严重损害你的长期职业生涯。” Production is already drying up. Even before the strike was announced, there was “trepidation about committing to projects this year”, says David Gray, managing director of Lux Machina, a high-end visual-effects company. 生产已经枯竭。高端视觉效果公司 Lux Machina 的董事总经理戴维•格雷(David Gray)表示，甚至在宣布罢工之前，人们就“对今年承诺的项目感到不安”。 When filming wraps on titles that are already in production, like Warner’s next season of “House of the Dragon”, currently under way at Leavesden, the dearth of new projects will be felt more keenly. Mr Gray recalls that the previous WGA strike, which lasted for 100 days in 2007-08, knocked the British film business off course for a couple of years. The current strike seems nowhere near a resolution. 在拍摄已经在制作中的电影时，比如华纳正在 Leavesden 拍摄的下一季《龙之屋》(House of the Dragon) ，新项目的匮乏会让人感觉更加强烈。格雷先生回忆说，上一次 WGA 罢工在2007-08年持续了100天，使英国电影业偏离了几年的轨道。目前的罢工似乎远未达成解决方案。 But there are two ways in which British film-makers may benefit. First, production costs stand to fall. 但英国电影制作人可能从两个方面获益: 第一，制作成本将持续下降。 The content-commissioning frenzy of recent years has inflated the price of everything from studio space to hairdressing, as Apple, Amazon and Co have arrived with their Silicon Valley-size chequebooks. 随着苹果(Apple)、亚马逊(Amazon)和公司(Co)带着他们硅谷规模的支票簿来到这里，近年来的内容委托热潮推高了从工作室空间到美发的所有东西的价格。 It has been a bonanza for the people who do those jobs, but excruciating for anyone who needs their services. As demand from American studios cools, the likes of ITV and the BBC will find that their more modest budgets go further. 对于从事这些工作的人来说，这是一笔巨大的财富，但对于任何需要他们服务的人来说，却是痛苦的。随着美国电影公司的需求降温，像英国独立电视台(ITV)和英国广播公司(BBC)这样的公司将发现，它们更为有限的预算将走得更远。 Second, locally made shows will command a higher price internationally. As the strike goes on, American streamers will run out of new content, without which they may lose subscribers. 其次，本土制作的节目在国际上的价格会更高。随着罢工的继续，美国流媒体将耗尽新的内容，如果没有这些内容，他们可能会失去订户。 Though the dispute prevents British writers from working for American studios, there is no ban on the studios buying shows that are already made. 尽管这一争端阻止了英国作家为美国电影公司工作，但并没有禁止电影公司购买已经制作好的电视节目。 If the strike continues, “the acquisitions market will heat up,” says Fred Black of Ampere Analysis, who expects British firms to push their shows harder to American distributors. Hollywood’s studio chiefs might not fear the unions. 如果罢工继续下去，“收购市场将会升温,”安培分析公司的弗雷德 · 布莱克说，他预计英国公司会更加努力地向美国经销商推销他们的节目。好莱坞的制片厂老板可能不会害怕工会。 They may yet be brought to their knees by re-runs of “Midsomer Murders”. ■ 他们可能会因为“骇人命案事件簿”的重播而屈服。 ￭ For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in Britain, sign up to Blighty, our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 想了解更多关于英国最大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯《英国人》。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/21/with-hollywood-on-strike-foreign-shows-enjoy-the-limelight 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/21/with-hollywood-on-strike-foreign-shows-enjoy-the-limelight 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Bittersweet 苦乐参半 Britain’s economy may grow by more than expected, but inflation is stickier 英国经济的增长可能超过预期，但通货膨胀更为严重 That makes the choice facing the central bank easier 这使得央行面临的选择更加容易 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 B RITAIN’S ECONOMIC outlook is a bit rosier. That at least is the verdict of the IMF , a global financial watchdog, which on May 23rd upgraded its forecast for the country. Instead of falling into a recession this year, as it was predicting in April, the IMF now believes that Britain will eke out growth. The fund attributed the improvement to a trifecta of falling wholesale energy prices, improved financial stability and warmer relations with the EU , exemplified by Rishi Sunak’s recent deal to reduce trade frictions in Northern Ireland. 英国的经济前景略为乐观。这至少是国际货币基金组织的结论，一个全球金融监督机构，在5月23日上调了对该国的预测。国际货币基金组织(IMF)现在相信，英国今年不会像4月份预测的那样陷入衰退，而是会勉强维持经济增长。IMF 将这一改善归功于批发能源价格下跌、金融稳定性改善以及与欧盟关系回暖的三重效应，例如里希•苏纳克(Rishi Sunak)最近达成的减少北爱尔兰贸易摩擦的协议。 As a result the IMF reckons that Britain no longer looks like the sick man of Europe. The fund’s growth forecast of 0.4% for 2023 is hardly the stuff of champagne and cartwheels, but it is still better than the slight contraction it predicts for Germany. 因此，国际货币基金组织认为，英国看起来不再像欧洲的病夫。该基金对2023年0.4% 的增长预测很难让人满意，但仍好于其对德国经济轻微收缩的预测。 The fund thinks that Britain will also do better than France and Italy over the next few years. Those politicians who pointed out the fallibility of the IMF when it was predicting a recession now hail the technocrats’ prophecies as evidence that pessimism about Britain is overdone. 国际货币基金组织认为，未来几年英国的表现也将好于法国和意大利。那些指出国际货币基金组织(IMF)在预测经济衰退时不可靠的政治家们，现在却把技术官僚的预言称赞为对英国悲观过头的证据。 At first glance inflation figures published on May 24th appear to be similarly encouraging for the government and its supporters. 乍一看，5月24日公布的通货膨胀数据似乎同样令政府及其支持者感到鼓舞。 For the first time since the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the pace of price growth fell into single digits: the consumer-price index was 8.7% higher in April than 12 months previously. That is a big fall compared with the 10.1% rate in March. 自从俄罗斯入侵乌克兰以来，价格增长速度首次降到个位数: 4月份的消费者价格指数比12个月前高出8.7% 。与3月份的10.1% 相比，这是一个大幅下降。 In fact, there was little—if any—good news in the figures. The drop in the headline rate largely reflected “base effects”. Energy prices jumped in April 2022 as a cap on retail prices was adjusted to reflect higher wholesale prices following the start of the war in Ukraine. 事实上，这些数字几乎没有什么好消息。总体利率的下降在很大程度上反映了“基数效应”。2022年4月，能源价格大幅上涨，原因是零售价格上限被调整，以反映乌克兰战争爆发后批发价格的上涨。 This April’s fall in the year-on-year comparison reflects a more favourable starting-point. 今年4月的同比降幅反映出一个更有利的起点。 The drop was also less than economic forecasters had expected. Economists working at banks and the like had predicted that the rate of inflation would drop even more steeply, to 8.2%. Higher food prices, increasing by 19% compared with April 2022, were partly responsible. 这一降幅也低于经济预测人士的预期。在银行等机构工作的经济学家曾预测，通货膨胀率将进一步急剧下降，降至8.2% 。与2022年4月相比，食品价格上涨了19% ，这是部分原因。 So was a jump in the price of communication: many mobile-phone and broadband suppliers update their prices for annual contracts in April. 通信价格的上涨也是如此: 许多移动电话和宽带供应商在4月份更新了年度合同的价格。 Most concerning for the Bank of England, so-called core inflation, which strips out food and energy to give a less volatile picture of underlying inflationary pressure, rose to 6.8% in April, up from 6.2% in March. 最令英格兰银行担忧的是，所谓的核心通货膨胀，即剔除食品和能源以给出潜在通货膨胀压力不那么波动的图景，从3月份的6.2% 上升到4月份的6.8% 。 That means the core-inflation rate is at its highest level since 1992. A similar rise occurred in the rate of services inflation, a decent indicator of the domestically generated inflation that the bank has the greatest power to affect. 这意味着核心通胀率处于1992年以来的最高水平。服务业通货膨胀率也出现了类似的上升，这是银行最有能力影响的国内通货膨胀的良好指标。 Investors promptly raised their bets on an increase in interest rates when the bank holds its next meeting in June. Markets also predicted that the main policy rate will peak at 5.25% in November, compared with a peak of 4.5% before the latest data were released. 在美联储6月份召开下一次会议时，投资者迅速加大了对加息的押注。市场还预测，主要政策利率将在11月达到5.25% 的峰值，而最新数据公布前的峰值为4.5% 。 The yield on government borrowing jumped to levels just below those seen in the chaotic aftermath of the disastrous mini-budget in September. 政府借款收益率跃升至略低于9月份灾难性的小型预算案造成的混乱后果的水平。 The combination of better-than-expected growth prospects and worse-than-forecast inflation does make the bank’s decisions much easier: the economy both needs and can cope with higher interest rates. 高于预期的增长前景和低于预期的通胀确实让央行的决策变得容易得多: 经济既需要也能够应对更高的利率。 But rising mortgage costs and stubbornly high inflation mean that it will be a while before Britons share the IMF ’s sunnier view of the country’s prospects. ■ 但不断上涨的抵押贷款成本和居高不下的通胀率意味着，英国人要想认同 IMF 对英国前景的乐观看法，还需要一段时间。￭ For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in Britain, sign up to Blighty, our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 想了解更多关于英国最大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯《英国人》。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/24/britains-economy-may-grow-by-more-than-expected-but-inflation-is-stickier 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/24/britains-economy-may-grow-by-more-than-expected-but-inflation-is-stickier 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Bagehot 白芝浩 British voters want more immigrants but less immigration 英国选民希望有更多的移民，而不是更少的移民 The government’s immigration policy is incoherent because voters are incoherent 政府的移民政策是不连贯的，因为选民是不连贯的 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 T HE BIGGEST lie in British politics is that voters want honest debate. Whenever a policy problem emerges, sensible types call for the trade-offs to be laid out before an informed voting public who will carefully weigh the options. 英国政治中最大的谎言就是选民想要诚实的辩论。无论何时出现政策问题，明智的人都会要求在知情的投票公众面前进行权衡，让他们仔细权衡各种选择。 Anyone who has sat through a focus group or gone canvassing with a politician knows this is nonsense. When faced with an either/or question, British voters usually give a decisive answer: “yes”. 任何经历过焦点小组讨论或与政治家一起游说的人都知道，这是无稽之谈。当面对非此即彼的问题时，英国选民通常会给出一个决定性的答案: “是的”。 Nowhere is this more true than immigration. A majority of voters think migration is too high, according to most polls. Almost nine out of ten Conservative voters think this; a plurality of Labour voters agree. 没有什么地方比移民更能说明这一点了。大多数民意调查显示，大多数选民认为移民太多了。几乎十分之九的保守党选民这样认为; 大多数工党选民同意这一点。 At the same time, British voters say they want more nurses, doctors and fruit-pickers. Carers, academics, computer whizzes and students are welcome, too. 与此同时，英国选民表示，他们希望有更多的护士、医生和水果采摘者。护理人员、学者、计算机专家和学生也受到欢迎。 Big-hearted Britons thought the country was completely right to let swathes of refugees from Ukraine and Hong Kong into the country. Britons may not much like immigration, but they are keen on immigrants. 心胸宽广的英国人认为，英国允许大批来自乌克兰和香港的难民进入英国是完全正确的。英国人可能不太喜欢移民，但他们热衷于移民。 If so, then the Tories have come up with an impeccably botched policy response. A Conservative government that has pledged to cut immigration at the past four elections has instead overseen an increase to a record level. 如果是这样，那么保守党已经提出了一个无可挑剔的拙劣政策回应。保守党政府曾在过去四次选举中承诺减少移民，但现在却将移民人数增加到了创纪录的水平。 Net migration hit 606,000 in Britain last year, according to figures published on May 25th, as people took advantage of a more liberal post-Brexit immigration regime. 根据5月25日公布的数据，去年英国的净移民达到60.6万人，这是因为人们利用了英国退欧后更为自由的移民制度。 The British government has thrown open the country’s doors while complaining about the people who walk through them. It is utterly incoherent. But when it comes to immigration, so are voters. 英国政府打开了国门，同时抱怨走进来的人们。完全语无伦次。但在移民问题上，选民也是如此。 Public opinion on immigration was not always so confused. Attitudes used to move in lockstep with numbers. In the 1940s and 1950s Britain accepted workers from across the Commonwealth, who could enter the country as they pleased. 公众对移民的看法并不总是那么混乱。过去人们的态度总是与数字一致。在1940年代和1950年代，英国接受来自英联邦各地的工人，他们可以随心所欲地进入英国。 By the 1960s eight out of ten people wanted lower immigration; hard-nosed and rather racist legislation followed. Likewise, when immigration increased during the 1990s and 2000s, so did concern. 到20世纪60年代，80% 的人希望降低移民比例; 紧随其后的是精明而且带有种族主义色彩的立法。同样，在上世纪90年代和本世纪头十年，当移民增加时，人们的担忧也随之增加。 This trend reached its apex in 2016, when, with just a month to go until the Brexit referendum, the government announced a then-record net influx of 330,000 people. Britain voted to leave the EU , with immigration cited as one of the main reasons. 这一趋势在2016年达到顶峰，当时距离英国退出欧盟公投只有一个月的时间，政府宣布当时创纪录的净流入人数达到33万人。英国投票决定脱离欧盟，移民是主要原因之一。 This tidy relationship has broken down. Immigration has increased sharply since the Brexit vote but concern about it has, if anything, gone down in the past decade. 这段亲密的关系已经破裂了。自英国退欧公投以来，移民人数大幅增加，但过去10年，人们对移民问题的担忧(如果有的话)有所下降。 In 2012 a quarter of voters thought immigrants boosted Britain’s economy; half thought immigrants harmed it, according to British Future, a think-tank. Now those proportions have reversed. 根据智库 British Future 的调查，2012年，四分之一的选民认为移民推动了英国经济的发展; 一半的选民认为移民损害了英国经济。现在这些比例反过来了。 The number of people who cite immigration as the number-one problem facing the country has plunged, while issues such as lousy health care and high inflation top the worry-list. 将移民问题列为国家面临的头号问题的人数已大幅下降，而糟糕的医疗保健和高通胀等问题则是最令人担忧的问题。 Attacking immigration was once an easy win for politicians. In 2015 almost 70% of voters wanted immigration reduced. Now, only 42% do. At the same time, a hard-core minority of people now want migration to increase. In 2015 only one in ten wanted this. Now about a quarter do. 攻击移民曾经是政客们轻而易举的胜利。2015年，近70% 的选民希望减少移民。现在，只有42% 的人这么认为。与此同时，少数核心人群希望移民增加。2015年，只有十分之一的人希望这样。现在大约四分之一。 James Dennison and Alexander Kustov, a pair of academics, label this phenomenon a “reverse backlash”. Politicians have tried to placate voters tempted by anti-immigrant populist parties and ignored others in the process. 两位学者詹姆斯•丹尼森(James Dennison)和亚历山大•库斯托夫(Alexander Kustov)将这种现象称为“逆向反弹”。政客们试图安抚那些受到反移民民粹主义政党诱惑的选民，但在这个过程中却忽视了其他人。 Once-silent liberal voters have started demanding to be heard. 一度沉默的自由派选民开始要求被倾听。 (Intriguingly, about half of people think the British public has become less tolerant overall, even though most polling points to the opposite; when discussing immigration, Britons think in irregular verbs: “I am tolerant; you are prejudiced; he is a complete bigot.”) (有趣的是，大约一半的人认为英国公众总体上变得不那么宽容了，尽管大多数民意调查的结果恰恰相反; 在讨论移民问题时，英国人用不规则动词思考: “我宽容; 你有偏见; 他是个彻头彻尾的偏执狂。”) Conservatives are split on how to deal with this change. For some, the increasingly liberal views of British voters when it comes to immigration should be seized on. 保守派在如何应对这一变化上存在分歧。对一些人来说，应该抓住英国选民在移民问题上日益自由化的观点。 Dominic Cummings, the architect of the Vote Leave campaign in 2016, argued that voters would be happy with high levels of immigration as long as it was controlled. Judging by the positive shift in attitudes on immigrants, he was right. 多米尼克•卡明斯(Dominic Cummings)是2016年退欧运动的设计师，他认为，只要移民受到控制，选民就会对高水平的移民感到满意。从对移民态度的积极转变来看，他是对的。 If the government can stop people crossing the English Channel in small boats (some 45,000 arrived last year in this manner) voters will not care about the larger numbers of migrants arriving through official channels. There are few benefits of Brexit. 如果政府能够阻止人们乘坐小船穿越英吉利海峡(去年约有4.5万人以这种方式抵达英吉利海峡) ，选民们就不会关心更多通过官方渠道抵达的移民。Brexit 几乎没有什么好处。 But Britain’s immigration policy could be one. 但英国的移民政策可能就是其中之一。 For other Conservative advisers—including those currently in Downing Street—immigration simply must come down if the government is to have any chance of surviving. In their view, the liberal turn is a mirage. 对于其他保守党顾问(包括目前在唐宁街工作的顾问)来说，如果政府想要生存下去，移民就必须减少。在他们看来，转向自由主义只是海市蜃楼。 When voters eventually notice that immigration has, in fact, hit an all-time high they will be furious. People have mistaken a drop in salience with an increase in liberalism. 当选民最终注意到移民事实上已经达到了历史最高点时，他们会非常愤怒。人们把显著性的下降与自由主义的抬头搞错了。 This hypothesis is about to be tested in real life: if voters want control rather than reductions, what if more than half a million arrive every year? Rishi Sunak, the prime minister, thinks he knows the answer to that question, and has pledged to reduce the numbers. 这一假设即将在现实生活中得到验证: 如果选民希望控制而不是削减，那么如果每年有50多万人来投票呢？印度总理 Rishi Sunak 认为他知道这个问题的答案，并承诺减少人数。 Welcome. Now get out 欢迎，出去吧 Taking numbers down a little is easy. Unless another war breaks out in Europe, there will be fewer refugees next year. Bringing them down a lot is harder. If the British government wants fewer people to come, it can change the law and suffer the consequences. 把数字降低一点很容易。除非欧洲爆发另一场战争，否则明年的难民人数将会减少。把他们拉下马就更难了。如果英国政府希望来的人更少，它可以修改法律，并承担后果。 Suella Braverman, the home secretary, has already tightened rules on the number of international students who can bring dependents, even though voters are broadly comfortable with people coming to Britain to study and universities rely on their fees. 英国内政大臣苏埃拉•布雷弗曼(Suella Braverman)已经收紧了对可以带家属来英国留学的国际学生人数的限制，尽管选民普遍对来英国学习的人感到满意，而且大学依赖他们的学费。 The government could crack down on fruit-pickers, but farmers in Lincolnshire would scream. Few voters would thank a government that turns away nurses. Cutting immigration comes at a cost that voters show no willingness to pay. 政府可以打击水果采摘者，但林肯郡的农民会尖叫。很少有选民会感谢一个拒绝护士的政府。削减移民的代价是选民不愿意付钱。 Rolling out the welcome mat and then shouting at anyone who wipes their feet on it may be an imperfect approach. But from the government’s point of view, it will have to do. Voters do not want to live with the consequences of their opinions. 铺开欢迎垫，然后对任何在上面擦脚的人大喊大叫，这可能是一种不完美的做法。但从政府的角度来看，它必须这么做。选民们不想承担他们的观点所带来的后果。 When voters are hypocrites, politicians must be too. ■ 当选民是伪君子时，政治家也一定是伪君子。 ￭ Read more from Bagehot, our columnist on British politics: 阅读更多来自我们的英国政治专栏作家白芝浩的文章: Truss Tour: 2023 (May 17th) 桁架之旅: 2023(5月17日) How housing became the new divide in British politics (May 11th) 住房是如何成为英国政治中新的分水岭的(5月11日) The Tories v the institutions (May 4th) 托利党诉制度(5月4日) Also: How the Bagehot column got its name 还有: 白芝浩专栏是如何得名的 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/25/british-voters-want-more-immigrants-but-less-immigration 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/britain/2023/05/25/british-voters-want-more-immigrants-but-less-immigration 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Britain 英国 Sections 部分 Business 生意 International 国际的 The cost of the global arms race 全球军备竞赛的代价 Farewell, peace dividend :: What a “war tax” means for the global economy 永别了，和平红利: “战争税”对全球经济意味着什么 Britain 英国 Sections 部分 Business 生意

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Farewell, peace dividend 永别了，和平红利 The cost of the global arms race 全球军备竞赛的代价 What a “war tax” means for the global economy “战争税”对全球经济意味着什么 May 23rd 2023 | BRUSSELS and SAN FRANCISCO 2023年5月23日 | 布鲁塞尔和旧金山 A T THE END of the cold war America’s president, George H.W. Bush, popularised the idea that cutting defence spending would boost the economy. “We can reap a genuine peace dividend this year and then year after year, in the form of permanently reduced defence budgets,” he declared in 1992. The world took note. 冷战结束乔治·赫伯特·沃克·布什美国总统普遍认为削减国防开支可以促进经济发展。他在1992年宣称: “我们可以在今年和年复一年地收获真正的和平红利，其形式是永久性削减国防预算。”。全世界都注意到了。 America went from shelling out 6% of its GDP on defence in 1989 to roughly 3% in ten years (see chart 1). Then came the 9/11 attacks and conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. 1989年，美国国防开支占 GDP 的6% ，10年间，这一比例下降到3% 左右(见图表1)。然后是911袭击和阿富汗和伊拉克的冲突。 Now with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, talk of war between America and China over Taiwan, and tensions concerning Iran’s nuclear ambitions, countries are tooling up as never before in this century. 现在，随着俄罗斯入侵乌克兰，美国和中国之间关于台湾战争的讨论，以及伊朗核野心引发的紧张局势，各国正在本世纪前所未有地装备起来。 Last year defence spending worldwide increased by nearly 4% in real terms to over $2trn, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, a think-tank (see chart 2). 根据智囊团斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所，去年全球国防开支实际增长了近4% ，超过2万亿美元(见表2)。 The share prices of defence firms are performing better than the overall stockmarket (see chart 3). Many NATO allies, notably Germany, plan to meet or exceed spending of 2% of GDP on defence—the alliance’s target. Other countries are planning to splurge, too. Japan plans to raise defence outlays by two-thirds through to 2027, turning it into the world’s third-largest spender. 国防企业的股票价格表现好于整个股票市场(见表3)。许多北约盟国，尤其是德国，计划达到或超过国防支出占 GDP 的2% ，这是北约的目标。其它国家也在计划挥霍。日本计划到2027年将国防开支提高三分之二，使其成为世界第三大军费开支国。 We estimate that total new defence commitments and forecast spending increases, if implemented, will generate over $200bn in extra defence spending globally each year. It could be a lot more. Imagine that countries which currently spend less than 2% of GDP per year meet that level and that the remainder increase spending by half a percentage point of GDP . Global defence outlays would rise by close to $700bn a year. 我们估计，新的国防承诺总额和预测支出增长如果得到落实，每年将在全球产生超过2000亿美元的额外国防支出。可能还有更多。想象一下，如果一个国家目前每年的支出不到 GDP 的2% ，就可以达到这个水平，其余国家的支出可以增加 GDP 的0.5个百分点。全球国防支出每年将增加近7000亿美元。 Russia’s invasion of Ukraine “risks wiping out the peace dividend we have enjoyed for the past three decades”, declared Kristalina Georgieva, the head of the IMF , in a speech in April. The West is sending ever more weapons, of ever growing sophistication, in order to help Ukraine launch a counter-offensive against Russia. It has equipped the best part of nine new armoured brigades with modern battle tanks and more besides. 国际货币基金组织(IMF)总裁克莉丝汀娜·乔吉瓦在今年4月的一次讲话中表示，俄罗斯入侵乌克兰“有可能抹去我们过去30年享有的和平红利”。为了帮助乌克兰对俄罗斯发动反攻，西方国家正在向乌克兰输送越来越多越来越先进的武器。它为九个新装甲旅最好的部分配备了现代化的战斗坦克，此外还有更多的装备。 Soon it will start training Ukrainian pilots to fly American-made F-16 fighter jets. 不久将开始训练乌克兰飞行员驾驶美国制造的 F-16战斗机。 The number of NATO countries hitting the 2% target rose from three in 2014 to seven last year. The club now says this should be “a floor, not a ceiling”, a notion that is likely to be enshrined at its summit in Lithuania in July. Some countries are moving well beyond. 达到2% 目标的北约国家从2014年的3个增加到去年的7个。俱乐部现在表示，这应该是“一个底线，而不是一个天花板”，这个概念很可能会在7月的立陶宛峰会上得到体现。一些国家正在远远超越。 Poland aims to reach 4% this year, and eventually to double the size of its army. France speaks of shifting to a “war economy”. 波兰的目标是今年达到4% ，并最终将其军队规模扩大一倍。法国谈到转向“战争经济”。 An arms race is intensifying on the other side of the globe, too. Taiwan is extending military service from four months to a year. Under the AUKUS deal, America and Britain will help supply Australia with nuclear-powered submarines; they will also aim to develop other weapons, including hypersonic missiles. In the past decade India’s defence budget has grown by about 50% in real terms, as has Pakistan’s. 在地球的另一端，军备竞赛也在加剧。台湾正将服役期从四个月延长至一年。根据 AUKUS 协议，美国和英国将帮助向澳大利亚提供核动力潜艇; 他们还将致力于发展其他武器，包括高超音速导弹。在过去的十年中，印度的国防预算实际增长了50% ，巴基斯坦也是如此。 In the Middle East, Gulf states are again shopping heavily in the arms bazaar. 在中东，海湾国家再次在军火市场大举采购。 China’s defence budget has grown by about 75% in real terms in the past ten years. It wants to “basically complete modernisation” of its forces by 2035, and become a “world class” military power by 2049. America thinks China wants the capability to invade Taiwan as early as 2027. 在过去十年中，中国的国防预算实际增长了约75% 。希望到2035年“基本实现军队现代化”，到2049年成为“世界级”军事强国。美国认为中国希望最早在2027年拥有入侵台湾的能力。 Some in America question whether its approach is adequate in a world riven by rivalry. Despite some recent increases, America’s defence budget has shrunk by about 5% since 2012. Squeezes on spending emerged in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2007-09. Yet even before the acute tension of current times, Congress gave authority to a commission to consider American defence spending. 一些美国人质疑，在一个竞争四分五裂的世界里，这种做法是否足够。尽管最近出现了一些增长，美国的国防预算自2012年以来已经缩减了大约5% 。2007年至2009年金融危机之后，政府开支出现了紧缩。然而，甚至在当前的紧张局势出现之前，国会就授权一个委员会考虑美国的国防开支。 In 2018 the body recommended raising it by 3% to 5% in real terms every year for at least five years. Overall America’s advantage over its rivals has eroded in the past century, reckons Andrew Krepinevich, an American strategist. 2018年，该机构建议至少连续五年每年实际增长3% 至5% 。美国战略家安德鲁 · 克雷皮尼维奇(AndrewKrepinevich)认为，在过去的一个世纪里，美国相对于竞争对手的总体优势已经被侵蚀。 During the first, second and cold wars America’s adversaries had much smaller economies than America did. No longer. Today China’s GDP alone is nearly 80% of America’s. 在第一次、第二次和冷战期间，美国的对手经济规模远小于美国。不再是了。今天，仅中国的 GDP 就接近美国的80% 。 In the decades after the cold war, the thinking was that to spend less on armies meant to spend more on infrastructure and public services and to lower debt or taxes. 在冷战结束后的几十年里，人们的想法是，减少军费开支意味着增加基础设施和公共服务开支，并降低债务或税收。 Since the 1960s the world has “released” about $4trn a year of spending at current prices in this way, equivalent to the global government budget for education. Now the peace dividend is turning into a “war tax”. How heavy will it be? 自上世纪60年代以来，世界每年以这种方式“释放”的支出约为4万亿美元，相当于全球政府的教育预算。现在，和平红利正在变成一种“战争税”。它会有多重？ Working out accurately who is spending what can be difficult. For international comparison, defence spending is usually reckoned as a share of GDP , at market exchange rates. By this measure global military expenditures appear close to a post-cold-war low, at around 2.5%. 准确地计算出谁在花什么可能是困难的。作为国际比较，按照市场汇率，国防开支通常被认为是 GDP 的一部分。按照这个标准衡量，全球军费开支似乎接近冷战后的最低水平，约为2.5% 。 But market exchange rates greatly underestimate the true size of defence establishments in countries such as China and Russia, where a given dollar of military spending can pay for a lot more weapons and soldiers. 但市场汇率大大低估了中国和俄罗斯等国国防设施的真实规模，在这些国家，给定一美元的军费开支可以支付更多的武器和士兵。 The proportion will also increase in the coming years if great-power rivalry grows as expected. In a more insecure world, countries will arm themselves because their neighbours are doing so or because their allies encourage them to. 如果大国之间的竞争像预期的那样增长，这一比例在未来几年也将上升。在一个更不安全的世界里，各国将武装自己，因为它们的邻国正在这样做，或者因为它们的盟友鼓励它们这样做。 Splurging more on weapons raises several questions. What will countries buy, might money be squandered and could the global economy be damaged? 在武器上挥霍更多引发了几个问题。各国将购买什么，是否会浪费资金，是否会损害全球经济？ America, by far the world’s largest defence spender, is devoting growing sums to research and development of future weapons. 迄今为止，美国是世界上最大的国防开支国，正在投入越来越多的资金用于未来武器的研究和开发。 This includes hypersonic missiles, to catch up with China and Russia; “directed energy” such as powerful lasers to shoot down drones and missiles; and artificial intelligence and robotics. 这包括用于追赶中国和俄罗斯的高超音速导弹; 用于击落无人机和导弹的强大激光等“定向能量”; 以及人工智能和机器人技术。 It is also buying as many munitions as its factories can produce—from 155mm artillery shells to anti-ship missiles. 它还在尽可能多地购买其工厂能够生产的军需品，从155毫米炮弹到反舰导弹。 The war in Ukraine has exposed the extraordinary quantities of munitions needed in a conflict, as well as the inability of peacetime production lines to meet such demand. 乌克兰境内的战争暴露了冲突中需要的大量弹药，以及和平时期的生产线无法满足这种需求。 China is investing on all fronts and expenditures grew by 4.2% in real terms last year. The breakdown of its budget is opaque, not least because of “civil-military fusion” in technological development. It has developed a thicket of anti-access/area denial ( A2/AD ) weapons, with ground-attack and anti-ship missiles able to reach deep into the Pacific. It also has a lead in some types of hypersonic missiles (which are harder to intercept than ballistic ones). Its navy is already larger than America’s. 中国正在全方位投资，去年实际支出增长了4.2% 。其预算的分解是不透明的，尤其是因为技术开发中的“军民融合”。它已经开发了一系列的反介入/区域拒绝(A2/AD)武器，其中包括能够深入太平洋的地面攻击和反舰导弹。它在某些类型的高超音速导弹(比弹道导弹更难拦截)方面也处于领先地位。它的海军规模已经超过了美国。 America, Russia and China are investing in their nuclear arsenals, too. America is upgrading all legs of its “triad” of ground-, air- and submarine-launched nukes. 美国、俄罗斯和中国也在投资建设自己的核武库。美国正在升级其地面、空中和潜艇发射核武器“三合一”的所有部件。 Russia is working on esoteric weapons, such as the long-distance, nuclear-powered Poseidon torpedo designed to set off an underwater nuclear explosion that, propagandists boast, can cause destructive tidal waves. 俄罗斯正在研究一些深奥的武器，比如远程核动力的波塞冬鱼雷，该鱼雷旨在引发水下核爆炸，宣传人员夸口说，这种爆炸可以引发毁灭性的海啸。 China is quickly expanding its arsenal, from several hundred warheads to 1,500 by 2035, according to the Pentagon. 五角大楼表示，中国正在迅速扩大其核武库，到2035年将核弹头数量从几百枚增加到1500枚。 Equipment is also at the top of the shopping list for many smaller countries. Germany is buying stealthy new F-35 jets as well as command-and-control systems. Poland is spending heavily on land forces—buying tanks, howitzers, precision rockets and more from America and South Korea—as well as combat aircraft. 设备也是许多较小国家的首选购物清单。德国正在购买隐形的新型 F-35战斗机以及指挥控制系统。波兰在陆军和战斗机方面投入巨资，包括从美国和韩国购买坦克、榴弹炮、精确火箭等。 Japan is seeking, among many other things, long-range “counter-strike” missiles to hit back at China and North Korea. 日本正在寻求，在许多其他事情中，远程“反打击”导弹来反击中国和朝鲜。 This shopping spree comes with several risks. 这种疯狂购物有几个风险。 Given the bottlenecks, one danger is escalating costs, in an industry where prices can be hard to control because of long development processes, changing requirements and because defence firms operate at the technological edge, with all the associated overheads. 考虑到这些瓶颈，一个危险是成本不断上升。在这个行业，由于开发过程漫长、需求不断变化，以及防务公司处于技术边缘，需要支付所有相关的管理费用，价格可能难以控制。 American defence budgets can be subject to the whims of politicians seeking benefits for their districts. Congress has persistently refused to let the air force retire obsolescent aircraft, for instance. 美国的国防预算可能会受到政客们一时兴起的心血来潮的影响，这些政客们希望为自己的选区谋取利益。例如，国会一直拒绝让空军退役那些过时的飞机。 European countries, for their part, are poor at co-ordinating procurement at scale. McKinsey, a consultancy, notes that they operate many more models of weapons than America does: 15 types of main battle tanks compared with one in America; 20 fighter jets versus seven, and so on. 就欧洲国家而言，它们在大规模采购方面缺乏协调。咨询公司麦肯锡(McKinsey)指出，他们操作的武器型号比美国多得多: 15种主战坦克，而美国只有一种; 20架战斗机，而美国只有7架，以此类推。 Worse, the defence industry is especially prone to graft, notes Josie Stewart of Transparency International, an anti-corruption group. 反腐败组织透明国际(Transparency International)的乔茜•斯图尔特(Josie Stewart)指出，更糟糕的是，国防工业尤其容易受贿。 That is because of the secrecy that surrounds many of its dealings, its importance to national security and the “revolving door” of experts versed in its technicalities. An onrush of money could make everything worse. 这是因为其许多交易的保密性、对国家安全的重要性以及精通其技术细节的专家的“旋转门”。大量资金的涌入可能会让一切变得更糟。 There are wider concerns that big defence establishments, and the industries supplying them, will weigh down the global economy by stoking inflation or slowing growth, or both. 人们更广泛地担心，大型国防机构及其供应行业将加剧通胀或放缓增长，或两者兼而有之，从而拖累全球经济。 Kenneth Rogoff of Harvard has noted that “the need to front-load massive temporary expenditures can easily push up borrowing costs”. 哈佛大学(Harvard)的肯尼思•罗格夫(Kenneth Rogoff)指出，“预先加载大量临时支出的需要，很容易推高借贷成本”。 Expectations for inflation? 通货膨胀预期？ Certain fears may be misplaced. Take defence inflation in America—the increase in prices facing buyers of military equipment. It is running at about 5% year on year, the highest rate in decades. 某些恐惧可能是多余的。以美国的国防通胀为例ーー军事装备购买者面临的价格上涨。同比增长约5% ，为几十年来最高水平。 During previous military build-ups this sort of defence inflation has sharply increased. In the early 1980s, a period in which Ronald Reagan built up America’s military capabilities, it easily outpaced economy-wide price rises. 在以往的军事集结中，这种国防通货膨胀急剧上升。上世纪80年代初，罗纳德•里根(Ronald Reagan)在那个时期建立了美国的军事实力，其增长速度轻松超过了整个经济体的物价上涨速度。 In the Vietnam war it briefly hit 48% on an annual basis. 在越南战争期间，这一比例曾短暂地达到每年48% 。 Even so, there is little reason to believe that the new cold war will be sharply inflationary. Not even the fiercest hawks are calling for defence spending, as a share of GDP , to return to the levels of the 1960s or 1970s. Barring a hot war between big powers, global defence spending is unlikely to grow above the low single digits of global GDP —meaning that its impact on global aggregate demand, and thus inflation, will be similarly small. 即便如此，几乎没有理由相信，新冷战将导致大幅通胀。即使是最强硬的鹰派人士也没有呼吁国防支出占 GDP 的比例恢复到上世纪60年代或70年代的水平。除非大国之间爆发一场热战，否则全球国防支出的增长不太可能超过全球国内生产总值(gdp)的个位数——这意味着，国防支出对全球总需求的影响，以及对通胀的影响，都将同样微不足道。 Spending can remain historically low, in large part, because defence is more efficient than it used to be. Modern armies require ever fewer people—allowing military planners to cut headcounts (though service members can become more expensive). 在很大程度上，国防支出可能保持在历史低位，因为它比以前更有效率。现代军队需要的人越来越少ーー允许军事规划者削减人数(尽管服役人员可能会变得更加昂贵)。 Brazil spends 78% of its budget on people compared with less than 50% in the West. In place of people you have better machines. Many planners bemoan the growing cost of each platform, but they improve with each iteration. 巴西78% 的预算花在人身上，而西方只有不到50% 。取代人类的是更好的机器。许多规划者抱怨每个平台的成本不断增长，但是他们每次迭代都在改进。 “These days you can hit dozens of targets with a single bomber, rather than vice versa, which used to be the case,” argues James Geurts, a retired air-force colonel who advises Lux Capital, a venture-capital firm. “如今，你可以用一架轰炸机打击几十个目标，而不是像过去那样，反之亦然,”为风险投资公司 Lux Capital 提供咨询的退休空军上校詹姆斯 · 格尔茨(James Geurts)说。 Official data from America suggest that once you adjust for improvements in quality, the price of a missile has fallen in nominal terms by about 30% since the late 1970s. The price of military aircraft is about flat. 来自美国的官方数据显示，一旦根据质量改进进行调整，导弹的名义价格自上世纪70年代末以来已经下降了约30% 。军用飞机的价格基本持平。 Today a country can spend relatively modestly to acquire fearsome capabilities. As such, defence spending tends to fall relative to GDP , particularly in peacetime. 如今，一个国家可以通过相对适度的支出来获得令人生畏的能力。因此，国防支出相对于 GDP 往往会下降，特别是在和平时期。 Defence could continue to get better and cheaper in relative terms because of the changing nature of what Dwight Eisenhower, a general-turned-president, called the “military-industrial complex”. 相对而言，国防可能会继续变得更好、更便宜，因为德怀特·艾森豪威尔将军出身的美国总统所称的“军事工业复合体”的性质正在发生变化。 In the past defence departments exported technology to civilians—think of the global-positioning system and the internet. Increasingly, the opposite is happening, with military industries importing technology from outside. 过去，国防部门向平民出口技术ーー想想全球定位系统和互联网吧。随着军事工业从外部引进技术，情况正在日益相反。 Technological trajectories 技术轨迹 Cyber-security, drones and satellite technology straddle both the civilian and military worlds. SpaceX, founded by Elon Musk, has launched American military satellites. Ukrainian warriors make extensive use of his Starlink constellation of satellites. 网络安全、无人机和卫星技术跨越了民用和军事领域。由埃隆 · 马斯克创立的 SpaceX 公司已经发射了美国的军事卫星。乌克兰战士广泛使用他的星链星座卫星。 America’s defence department has identified 14 critical technologies deemed vital to national security. Perhaps ten or 11 of these areas are being led commercially. Tech firms such as Google and Microsoft help out with cyber-security, data-processing and artificial intelligence. 美国国防部确认了14项被认为对国家安全至关重要的关键技术。也许其中的10或11个领域正在商业领先。谷歌和微软等科技公司在网络安全、数据处理和人工智能方面提供帮助。 Several firms provide cloud computing. 有几家公司提供云计算。 It all amounts to a change of cultural mindset from tech firms that once shunned defence as morally tainted. A defence-tech ecosystem has sprung up in America, with lots of engineering expertise in Colorado; regulation wonks in Washington, DC ; aerospace types in Los Angeles; and investors in San Francisco. But it is not just an American phenomenon. About half of the biggest defence-and-aerospace firms founded within the past decade are headquartered in other parts of the world. 这一切都意味着科技公司文化观念的改变，这些公司曾经因为道德败坏而回避国防。国防科技生态系统已经在美国兴起，科罗拉多州拥有大量的工程专家，华盛顿特区的监管专家，洛杉矶的航空航天类型，以及旧金山的投资者。但这不仅仅是美国的现象。在过去十年中成立的最大的国防和航空航天公司中，大约有一半的总部设在世界的其他地方。 “Founders no longer want to do the next social-media startup,” says Paul Kwan of General Catalyst, an American investment firm. 美国投资公司 General Catalyst 的保罗•关(Paul Kwan)表示: “创始人不再想创建下一个社交媒体初创企业。”。 Big investors in Silicon Valley, including General Catalyst and the venture-capital outfit Andreessen Horowitz, are increasingly interested in national security, broadly defined. Tech firms smell opportunity. 硅谷的大投资者，包括 General Catalyst 和风险投资机构安德森·霍罗威茨，对广义的国家安全越来越感兴趣。科技公司嗅到了机会。 Palantir, which specialises in big-data analytics, recently released a new defence platform powered by AI to speed up decision-making. Defence was one of the few sectors where there were more venture-capital deals in 2022 than in 2021. 专注于大数据分析的 Palantir 最近发布了一个由人工智能驱动的新防御平台，以加快决策速度。国防是2022年风险投资交易比2021年多的少数几个行业之一。 There is also a growing effort to inject defence firms themselves with tech’s dynamism. A recent parliamentary report in Britain noted that “old ‘legacy’ systems complicate tasks as routine as ordering a pair of boots”. It can take ten to 20 years to produce a new plane. 还有一个越来越大的努力是为国防企业自身注入科技的活力。英国最近的一份议会报告指出，“旧的‘遗留’系统使日常工作复杂化，就像订购一双靴子一样”。制造一架新飞机可能需要10到20年的时间。 But rather than develop new planes every decade or so, says Jim Taiclet, the boss of Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defence contractor, his firm aims to mimic Silicon Valley by offering software upgrades to improve performance every six to 12 months. 世界最大的国防承包商洛克希德 · 马丁公司的老板吉姆 · 泰克莱特(Jim Taiclet)说，与其每十年左右开发一架新飞机，他的公司旨在模仿硅谷，每六到十二个月提供软件升级以改善性能。 The fiscal consequences of the new defence boom may be modest if the industry becomes more efficient. The defence-versus-everything-else trade-off was acute in decades past: in 1944 America spent 53% of its GDP on military forces. But it is less so today. If the world doubled its military spending overnight (assuming no increases in taxes or debt) public spending would need to be cut by about 5% to balance the books. Not easy, but not that hard. 如果该行业变得更有效率，新一轮国防繁荣的财政后果可能不会太严重。在过去的几十年里，国防与其他一切的权衡是非常尖锐的: 1944年，美国将其 GDP 的53% 花在了军事力量上。但今天就不那么如此了。如果世界军费开支一夜之间翻了一番(假设税收和债务没有增加) ，公共开支需要削减5% 左右才能平衡收支。不容易，但也没那么难。 What of the impact on growth? Many historians argue that defence spending is a drain on the rest of the economy. Keeping a country secure has great economic value. But once you buy a missile, say, it tends to sit in storage rather than being put to productive use. 这对经济增长有何影响？许多历史学家认为，国防支出是对其他经济领域的消耗。维护国家安全具有重大的经济价值。但是，一旦你购买了一枚导弹，比如说，它往往会被储存起来，而不是投入生产性使用。 During the second world war productivity growth slowed in America, as people were pulled from the fields into munitions factories and military units. 第二次世界大战期间，美国的生产力增长放缓，因为人们被迫离开农田，进入军火工厂和军事单位。 Forced limits on military spending in postwar Japan and West Germany, by contrast, coincided with huge productivity improvements in both countries. 相比之下，战后日本和西德被迫限制军费开支的同时，两国的生产力都有了巨大提高。 This is only a partial story, however. Countries such as Israel and South Korea combine vibrant economies with big defence sectors. We analysed World Bank data from the 1960s to 2021, exploring the relationship between military spending and GDP growth. Both within a single country over many years, and between countries in a single year, we find practically no correlation between the two. Put simply, more guns need not mean less butter. 然而，这只是部分故事。以色列和韩国等国将充满活力的经济与庞大的国防部门结合在一起。我们分析了世界银行20世纪60年代至2021年的数据，探讨了军费开支与 GDP 增长之间的关系。无论是在一个国家内多年，还是在国家之间一年，我们发现两者之间实际上没有相关性。简而言之，更多的枪并不意味着更少的黄油。 More defence-related R&D could boost wider innovation. And more investment in defence capabilities could also have positive spillover effects on the rest of the economy. A recent paper by Enrico Moretti of the University of California, Berkeley, and colleagues finds that “government-funded R&D in general—and defence R&D in particular—[is] effective at raising a country’s total expenditures on innovation in a given industry.” 更多与国防相关的研发可以促进更广泛的创新。对国防能力的更多投资也可能对其他经济部门产生积极的溢出效应。加州大学伯克利分校(University of California，Berkeley)的恩里科•莫雷蒂(Enrico Moretti)及其同事最近发表的一篇论文发现，“总体而言，政府资助的研发(尤其是国防研发)有效地提高了一个国家在特定行业创新方面的总支出。” Of taxes and tanks 税收和坦克 Governments have plenty of competing demands for their cash: among them caring for ageing populations, fighting climate change and paying higher interest on their debts. Some fear that higher taxes are inevitable, or that the cost will be passed to future generations as borrowing. 各国政府对资金有着大量相互竞争的需求: 其中包括照顾老龄化人口、应对气候变化以及支付更高的债务利息。一些人担心，提高税收是不可避免的，或者成本将作为借款转嫁给未来几代人。 Many governments will face pressure to backpedal on commitments to higher military expenditures. According to a recently leaked intelligence report, Justin Trudeau, Canada’s prime minister, told NATO leaders that his country would never reach the 2% target. It is not yet clear how Japan or Poland will pay for their big rises in defence. 许多国家的政府将面临压力，要求它们在增加军费开支的承诺上做出让步。根据最近泄露的一份情报报告，加拿大总理贾斯汀 · 特鲁多(Justin Trudeau)告诉北约领导人，他的国家永远无法达到2% 的目标。目前尚不清楚日本或波兰将如何为其大幅增加的国防开支买单。 Goings-on in Washington, above all, will determine the size and duration of the boom. The mainstream still wants America to maintain primacy and fend off both Russia and China. 最重要的是，华盛顿正在发生的事情将决定繁荣的规模和持续时间。主流仍然希望美国保持主导地位，同时抵御俄罗斯和中国。 But many on the “America First” populist wing want to cut support for Ukraine and, in some cases, even for the Pentagon. A third group favours redirecting military spending away from Europe and the Middle East to concentrate on China. 但是许多“美国优先”的民粹主义者希望削减对乌克兰的支持，在某些情况下，甚至削减对五角大楼的支持。第三类人支持将军费开支从欧洲和中东转向中国。 And a fourth contains figures from the left who want less spending on defence and more on social matters. The first category, the internationalist hawks, seem to have the upper hand. Confronting America’s rival is one of the few issues where there is bipartisan support. 第四个是左翼人士，他们希望减少国防支出，增加社会事务支出。第一类，国际主义鹰派，似乎占了上风。对抗美国的竞争对手是少数得到两党支持的问题之一。 Several things might push up spending. A crisis might escalate—or even draw America into direct fighting—forcing a military surge. Harry Truman, for instance, oversaw one as president during the Korean war. Short of conflict, a future president may opt for a military build-up. 有几个因素可能会推高支出。一场危机可能升级，甚至将美国卷入直接战争，迫使美国增兵。例如，哈里•杜鲁门(Harry Truman)在朝鲜战争期间曾担任美国总统。如果没有冲突，未来的总统可能会选择军事集结。 Many credit Reagan’s decision to boost defence outlays as crucial to bankrupting the Soviet Union and winning the cold war. 许多人认为，里根增加国防开支的决定，对于让苏联破产和赢得冷战至关重要。 One way or another, a new era of rearmament beckons. 无论如何，一个重整军备的新时代正在召唤我们。 As General Mark Milley, chairman of America’s joint chiefs of staff, told the Senate recently: “Preventing great-power war through readiness and deterrence is very expensive, but not as expensive as fighting a war.” And the only thing more costly than that, as he explained, is losing one. ■ 正如美国参谋长联席会议主席马克•米利(Mark Milley)将军最近对参议院所言: “通过准备就绪和威慑来防止大国之间的战争代价非常高昂，但没有打一场战争那么高昂。”正如他解释的那样，唯一比这更昂贵的就是失去一个。￭ Correction (May 24th): A previous version of this article misstated Japan’s defence-spending plans, and the number of NATO countries that spend 2% of GDP on defence. Sorry. 更正(5月24日) : 本文之前的版本错误地陈述了日本的国防开支计划，以及北约国家国防开支占国内生产总值2% 的数量。对不起。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/international/2023/05/23/the-cost-of-the-global-arms-race 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/international/2023/05/23/the-cost-of-the-global-arms-race 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

International 国际的 Sections 部分 Finance & economics 金融与经济 Business 生意 Can carbon removal become a trillion-dollar business? 碳移除能否成为一项价值万亿美元的业务？ A giant sucking sound :: Quite possibly—and not before time 一个巨大的吸吮声: : 很有可能ーー而且不是在时间之前 It will take years to get Deutsche Bahn back on track 让 Deutsche Bahn 重回正轨需要数年时间 Deutsche Bahn :: Europe’s biggest rail operator has gone off the rails ❗ 🔄 Asian businesses are being dragged into the chip war 亚洲企业正被卷入芯片战争 Muscle and memory :: China’s decision to ban Micron puts South Korea’s semiconductor manufacturers in an awkward spot 肌肉和记忆: 中国禁止美光的决定让韩国半导体制造商陷入尴尬境地。 Why activist investors are going to have a busy year 为什么维权投资者今年会很忙 Reactivated :: If you think they have gone soft, think again 重新激活: 如果你认为他们已经软化，再想想。 What properties would Sam Zell invest in next? Sam Zell 接下来会投资什么地产？ Zell-side analysis :: One of America’s mightiest property tycoons died on May 19th, aged 81 Zell-side analysis: 美国最有权势的地产大亨之一于5月19日去世，享年81岁 Meta gets whacked with a €1.2bn penalty Meta 被罚款12亿欧元 Fine and dandy :: It is the biggest punishment yet for breaching the EU’s privacy rules 这是迄今为止对违反欧盟隐私规定的最大惩罚。 Why are corporate retreats so extravagant? 为什么公司的休假如此奢侈？ Bartleby :: Companies’ summer camps get unnecessarily creative 巴特比: 公司的夏令营变得毫无必要地富有创造性 The tech giants have an interest in AI regulation 科技巨头对人工智能监管很感兴趣 Schumpeter :: It is a way of holding back open-source proliferation 熊彼特: 这是阻止开放源码扩散的一种方式 International 国际的 Sections 部分 Finance & economics 金融与经济

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 A giant sucking sound 巨大的吸吮声 Can carbon removal become a trillion-dollar business? 碳移除能否成为一项价值万亿美元的业务？ Quite possibly—and not before time 很有可能，而且不是在时间到之前 May 21st 2023 | Notrees 2023年5月21日 “T ODAY WE SEE the birth of a new species,” declared Julio Friedmann, gazing across the bleak landscape. Along with several hundred grandees, the energy technologist had travelled to Notrees, a remote corner of the Texas oil patch, in late April. “今天我们看到了一个新物种的诞生,”胡里奥 · 弗里德曼凝视着这片荒凉的土地宣布。4月下旬，这位能源技术专家与数百名贵族一起前往德克萨斯州石油开采区的偏远角落诺特里什(Notree)。 He was invited by 1PointFive, an arm of Occidental Petroleum, an American oil firm, and of Carbon Engineering, a Canadian startup backed by Bill Gates. The species in question is in some ways akin to a tree—but not the botanical sort, nowhere to be seen on the barren terrain. 他受到了美国石油公司西方石油公司公司1Pointfive 和比尔•盖茨支持的加拿大初创企业 Carbon Engineering 的邀请。这个物种在某些方面类似于一棵树，但不是植物学上的那种，在这片贫瘠的土地上是看不到的。 Rather, it is an arboreal artifice: the world’s first commercial-scale “direct air capture” ( DAC ) plant. 更确切地说，这是一个树上的策略: 世界上第一个商业规模的“直接空气捕捉”(DAC)工厂。 Like a tree, DAC sucks carbon dioxide from the air, concentrates it and makes it available for some use. In the natural case, that use is creating organic molecules through photosynthesis. For DAC , it can be things for which humans already use CO 2 , like adding fizz to drinks, spurring plant growth in greenhouses or, in Occidental’s case, injecting it into oilfields to squeeze more drops of crude from the deposits. DAC 就像一棵树，从空气中吸收二氧化碳，并将其浓缩起来，供人们使用。在自然情况下，这种用途是通过光合作用产生有机分子。对于 DAC 来说，它可以是人类已经使用 CO 2 的东西，比如在饮料中加入汽水，刺激温室中植物的生长，或者，在 Occidental 的例子中，将其注入油田以从沉积物中榨取更多的原油。 Yet some of the 500,000 tonnes of CO 2 that the Notrees plant will capture annually, once fully operational in 2025, will be pumped beneath the plains in the service of a grander goal: fighting climate change. For unlike the carbon stored in biological plants, which can be released when they are cut down or burned, CO 2 artificially sequestered may well stay sequestered indefinitely. Companies that want to net out some of their own carbon emissions but do not trust biology-based offsets will pay the project’s managers per stashed tonne. 然而，诺特里斯核电站每年将捕获50万吨二氧化碳，到2025年全面投入使用后，其中一部分将被抽到平原地下，以实现一个更宏伟的目标: 应对气候变化。因为与生物植物中储存的碳不同，生物植物在被砍伐或燃烧时会释放出来，人工隔离的 CO 2 很可能会无限期地保持隔离状态。那些希望减少部分自身碳排放量、但不相信基于生物学的碳补偿的公司，将按每储存一吨碳向项目经理支付报酬。 That makes the Notrees launch the green shoot of something else, too: a real industry. 这也使得诺特里夫妇开启了另一个新的绿芽: 一个真正的产业。 Carbon Engineering and its rivals, like Climeworks , a Swiss firm, Global Thermostat, a Californian one, and myriad startups worldwide, are attracting capital. Occidental plans to build 100 large-scale DAC facilities by 2035. Others are trying to mop up CO 2 produced by power plants and industrial processes before it enters the atmosphere, an approach known as carbon capture and storage ( CCS ). In April ExxonMobil unveiled plans for its newish low-carbon division, whose long-term goal is to offer such decarbonisation as a service for industrial customers in sectors, like steel and cement, where emissions are otherwise hard to abate. 碳工程公司及其竞争对手，如瑞士的 Climeworks 公司、加州的 Global Thermostat 公司以及世界各地的众多初创公司，正在吸引资本。西方计划到2035年建造100个大型发援会设施。其他人则试图在发电厂和工业生产过程产生的 CO 2 进入大气之前将其清除，这种方法被称为碳捕获和储存(CCS)。今年4月，埃克森美孚(ExxonMobil)公布了其新成立的低碳部门的计划，该部门的长期目标是为钢铁和水泥等行业的工业客户提供此类脱碳服务，否则这些行业的排放将难以减少。 The oil giant thinks this sector could be raking in annual revenues of $6trn globally by 2050. 这家石油巨头认为，到2050年，该行业在全球的年收入可能达到6万亿美元。 The boom in carbon removal, whether from the air or from industrial point sources, cannot come fast enough. The UN -backed Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assumes that if Earth is to have a chance of warming by less than 2°C above pre-industrial levels, renewables, electric vehicles and other emissions reductions are not enough. CCS and sources of “negative emissions” such as DAC must play a part. The Department of Energy calculates that America’s climate targets require capturing and storing between 400m and 1.8bn tonnes of CO 2 annually by 2050, up from 20m tonnes today. Wood Mackenzie, an energy consultancy, reckons various forms of carbon removal account for a fifth of the global emissions reductions needed to emit no net greenhouse gases by 2050. If Wood Mackenzie is right, this would be equivalent to sucking up more than 8bn tonnes of CO 2 annually. That means an awful lot of industrial-scale carbon-removal ventures (see chart 1). 无论是从空气中还是从工业点源中，碳去除的繁荣都来得不够快。联合国支持的政府间气候变化专门委员会认为，如果地球有机会比工业革命前的水平升温不到2摄氏度，可再生能源、电动汽车和其他减排措施是不够的。CCS 和 DAC 等“负排放”来源必须发挥作用。根据美国能源部(Department of Energy)的计算，到2050年，美国的气候目标要求每年捕获和储存4亿至18亿吨二氧化碳，高于目前的2000万吨。能源咨询公司 Wood Mackenzie 认为，各种形式的碳清除占到到2050年实现无温室气体净排放所需全球减排量的五分之一。如果 Wood Mackenzie 是对的，这相当于每年吸收逾80亿吨 CO 2 。这意味着大量工业规模的碳清除风险投资(见表1)。 For years such projects were regarded as technically plausible, perhaps, but uneconomical. An influential estimate by the American Physical Society in 2011 put the cost of DAC at $600 per tonne of CO 2 captured. By comparison, permits to emit one tonne trade at around $100 in the EU ’s emissions-trading system. CCS has been a perennial disappointment. Simon Flowers of Wood Mackenzie says the power sector has spent some $10bn over the years trying to get it to work, without much success. 多年来，这样的项目被认为在技术上是可行的，也许，但不经济。美国物理学会在2011年的一项有影响力的估计显示，DAC 的成本为每吨捕获的 CO 2 600美元。相比之下，在欧盟的排放交易体系中，每吨排放量的许可价格在100欧元左右。CCS 一直令人失望。Wood Mackenzie 的西蒙•弗劳尔斯(Simon Flowers)表示，多年来，电力行业花费了大约100亿美元，试图让它运转起来，但没有取得多大成功。 Backers of the new crop of carbon-removal projects think this time is different. One reason for their optimism is better and, crucially, cheaper technology (see chart 2). The cost of sequestering a tonne of CO 2 beneath Notrees has not been disclosed, but a paper from 2018 published in the journal Joule put the price tag for Carbon Engineering’s DAC system at between $94 and $232 per tonne when operating at scale. That is much less than $600, and not a world away from the EU ’s carbon price. 新一轮碳移除项目的支持者认为这次情况有所不同。他们乐观的一个原因是技术更好，更重要的是更便宜(见表2)。将一吨二氧化碳封存在诺特里斯之下的成本尚未披露，但2018年发表在《焦耳》(Joule)杂志上的一篇论文将碳工程公司 DAC 系统的规模运营成本定在每吨94美元至232美元之间。这远远低于600美元，与欧盟的碳排放价格相去甚远。 CCS , which should be cheaper than DAC , is also showing a bit more promise. Svante, a Canadian startup, uses inexpensive materials to capture CO 2 from dirty industrial flue gas for around $50 a tonne (though that excludes transport and storage). Other companies are converting the captured carbon into products which they then hope to sell at a profit. CarbonFree, which works with US Steel and BP , a British oil-and-gas company, takes CO 2 from industrial processes and turns it into speciality chemicals. 应该比 DAC 便宜的 CCS 技术也显示出更大的前景。Svante，一家加拿大的初创公司，使用廉价的材料从肮脏的工业废气中捕获 CO 2 ，成本约为每吨50美元(尽管这还不包括运输和储存)。其他公司正在将捕获的碳转化为产品，然后希望出售获利。与美国钢铁公司(US Steel)和英国石油天然气公司英国石油(BP)合作的 Carbon free 公司，从工业流程中提取 CO 2 ，并将其转化为特用化学品。 LanzaTech, which has a commercial-scale partnership with ArcelorMittal, a European steel giant, and several Chinese industrial firms, builds bioreactors that convert industrial carbon emissions into useful materials. LanzaTech 与欧洲钢铁巨头安赛乐米塔尔和几家中国工业企业建立了商业规模的合作伙伴关系，建造生物反应器，将工业碳排放转化为有用的材料。 Some make their way into portable carbon stores, such as Lululemon yoga pants. 其中一些进入了便携式碳储存设施，比如露露柠檬瑜伽裤。 All told, carbon capture, utilisation and storage ( CCUS in the field’s acronym-rich jargon) may attract $150bn in investments globally this decade, predicts Wood Mackenzie. Assessing current and proposed projects, the consultancy reckons that global CCUS capacity—which on its definition includes CCS, the sundry ways to put the captured carbon to use, as well as DAC —will rise more than sevenfold by 2030. Wood Mackenzie 预测，总的来说，碳捕获、利用和封存(CCUS，该领域缩写丰富的术语)在未来十年可能在全球吸引1500亿美元的投资。在评估当前和拟议中的项目时，该咨询公司估计，到2030年，全球 CCUS 产能(根据其定义，包括 CCS、利用捕获的碳的各种方式以及 DAC)将增长7倍以上。 The second—possibly bigger—factor behind the recent flurry of carbon-removal activity is government action. 第二个可能更大的因素是政府的行动。 One obvious way to promote the industry would be to make carbon polluters pay a high enough fee for every tonne of carbon they emit that it would be in their interest to pay carbon removers to mop it all up, either at the source or from the atmosphere. 促进该行业发展的一个显而易见的办法是，让碳污染企业为其排放的每吨碳支付足够高的费用，这样，无论是从源头还是从大气中，支付清除碳的费用都符合它们的利益。 A reasonable carbon price like the EU ’s current one may, just about, make CCS viable. For DAC to be a profitable enterprise, though, the tax would probably need to be a fair bit higher, which could smother economies still dependent on hydrocarbons. 像欧盟目前这样合理的碳排放价格可能会让 CCS 变得可行。不过，要想让发展援助委员会成为一家盈利企业，税率可能需要提高一些，这可能会扼杀仍然依赖碳氢化合物的经济体。 That, plus the dim prospects for a global carbon tax, means that state support is needed to bridge the gap between the current price of carbon and the cost of extracting it. 再加上全球碳税前景黯淡，这意味着需要国家支持，以弥合当前碳价格与碳开采成本之间的差距。 The emerging view among technologists, investors and buyers is that carbon removal will develop like waste management did decades ago—as an initially costly endeavour that needs public support to get off the ground but can in time turn profitable. 技术专家、投资者和买家之间正在形成的观点是，碳移除将像几十年前的废弃物管理那样发展ーー这是一项最初代价高昂的努力，需要公众支持才能启动，但最终可能会变得有利可图。 Policymakers are coming over to this view. Some of the hundreds of billions of dollars in America’s recently approved climate handouts are aimed at bootstrapping the industry into existence. 政策制定者正逐渐接受这种观点。美国最近批准的数千亿美元气候补贴中的一部分旨在促进该行业的发展。 An enhanced tax credit included in one of the laws, the Inflation Reduction Act, provides up to $85 per tonne of CO 2 permanently stored, and $60 per tonne of CO 2 used for enhanced oil recovery, which also sequesters CO 2 (albeit in order to produce more hydrocarbons). Clio Crespy of Guggenheim Securities, an investment firm, calculates that this credit increases the volume of emissions in America that are “in the money” for carbon removal more than tenfold. The EU ’s response to America’s climate bonanza is likely to promote carbon removal, too. Earlier this year the EU and Norway announced a “green alliance” to boost regional carbon-capture plans. 其中一项增强的税收抵免法案——《通货膨胀减少法案》规定，每吨永久储存的二氧化碳最高可达85美元，每吨用于提高原油采收率的二氧化碳最高可达60美元，这也可以隔离二氧化碳(尽管是为了生产更多的碳氢化合物)。投资公司古根海姆证券(Guggenheim Securities)的克里奥 · 克雷斯皮(Clio Crepy)计算出，这种信用增加了美国的碳排放量，而这些排放量是用于碳清除的“现金”的十倍以上。欧盟对美国气候变化的回应也可能促进碳移除。今年早些时候，欧盟和挪威宣布了一个“绿色联盟”，以促进区域碳捕获计划。 Buyers of carbon credits are starting to line up. Tech firms, keen to burnish their progressive credentials, are leading the way. 购买碳信用额度的人开始排起长队。热衷于提升自己进步资历的科技公司正在引领潮流。 On May 15th Microsoft said it would purchase (for an undisclosed sum) 2.7m tonnes of carbon captured over a decade from biomass-burning power plants run by Orsted, a Danish clean-energy firm, and pumped underneath the North Sea by a consortium involving Equinor, Shell and TotalEnergies, three European oil giants. 5月15日，微软宣布将购买(数额不详)270万吨碳，这些碳是从丹麦清洁能源公司奥斯特德(Orsted)运营的生物质燃烧发电厂十年来捕获的，由欧洲三大石油巨头 Equinor、壳牌(Shell)和 TotalEnergy 组成的财团抽取到北海海底。 On May 18th Frontier, a buyers’ club with a $1bn carbon-removal pot bankrolled mainly by Alphabet, Meta, Stripe and Shopify, announced a $53m deal with Charm Industrial. The firm will remove 112,000 tonnes of CO 2 between 2024 and 2030 by converting agricultural waste, which would otherwise emit carbon as it decomposes, into an oil that can be stored underground. 5月18日，一个拥有10亿美元碳清除资金的买家俱乐部 Frontier 宣布与 Charm Industrial 达成一项5300万美元的交易，该资金主要由 Alphabet、 Meta、 Stripe 和 Shopify 提供。该公司将在2024年至2030年间，通过将农业废弃物转化为可以储存在地下的石油，从而去除11.2万吨二氧化碳。 Big tech is not alone. NextGen, a joint venture between Mitsubishi Corporation, a Japanese conglomerate, and South Pole, a Swiss developer of carbon-removal projects, intends to acquire over 1m tonnes in certified CO 2 -removal credits by 2025, and sell them on to others. It has just announced the purchase of nearly 200,000 tonnes’ worth of such credits from 1PointFive and two other ventures. The end-buyers include SwissRe and UBS , two Swiss financial giants, Mitsui OSK Lines, a Japanese shipping firm, and Boston Consulting Group. On May 23rd JPMorgan Chase, America’s biggest bank, said it would spend over $200m in the coming years on buying credits from carbon-removal firms. 大型科技公司并不孤单。日本三菱商事集团 nextGen 与瑞士碳清除项目开发商 South Pole 组建的合资企业，计划到2025年获得100多万吨经认证的 CO 2 清除信用额度，并将其出售给其他企业。它刚刚宣布从1PointFive 和另外两家合资企业购买价值近20万吨的此类信贷。最终买家包括瑞士两大金融巨头瑞士再保险(SwissRe)和瑞银集团(UBS)、日本船运公司三井 OSK 航运(Mitsui OSK Lines)和波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)。5月23日，美国最大的银行摩根大通表示，它将在未来几年花费2亿美元从碳清除公司购买信用额度。 Maybe the biggest sign that the carbon-removal business has legs is its embrace by the oil industry. Occidental is keen on DAC . ExxonMobil says it will spend $17bn from 2022 to 2027 on “lower-emissions investments”, with a slug going to CCS . Its main American rival, Chevron, is hosting Svante at one of its Californian oilfields. As the Microsoft deal shows, their European peers want to convert parts of the North Sea floor into a giant carbon sink. 或许，碳清除行业有长足发展的最大迹象，就是石油行业对其的拥抱。西方人很喜欢 DAC。埃克森美孚(ExxonMobil)表示，从2022年到2027年，该公司将投入170亿美元用于“低排放投资”，其中一部分将用于 CCS 技术。它在美国的主要竞争对手雪佛龙(Chevron)正在其位于加利福尼亚的一个油田招待斯万特。正如微软的交易所显示的那样，他们的欧洲同行希望将北海海底的部分地区转变成一个巨大的碳汇。 Equinor and Wintershall, a German oil-and-gas firm, have already secured licences to stash carbon captured from German industry in North Sea sites. Hugo Dijkgraaf, Wintershall’s technology chief, thinks his firm can abate up to 30m tonnes of CO 2 per year by 2040. The idea, he says, is to turn “from an oil-and-gas company into a gas-and-carbon-management company”. Equinor 和德国油气公司 Wintershall 已经获得许可证，可以将从德国工业捕获的碳储存在北海地区。Wintershall 公司的技术总监 Hugo Dijkgraaf 认为，到2040年，他的公司每年可以减少3000万吨 CO 2 。他表示，这个想法是要“从一家石油和天然气公司转变为一家天然气和碳管理公司”。 Saudi Arabia, home to Saudi Aramco, the world’s oil colossus, has a goal of increasing CCS capacity fivefold in the next 12 years. Its mega-storage facility at Jubail Industrial City is expected to be operational by 2027. ADNOC , Aramco’s Emirati counterpart, wants to increase its capacity sixfold by 2030, to 5m tonnes a year. 全球石油巨头沙特阿美(Saudi Aramco)的总部所在地沙特阿拉伯有一个目标，即在未来12年内将 CCS 产能提高5倍。其位于 Jubail Industrial City 的巨型储存设施预计将于2027年投入使用。阿联酋石油公司(Aramco)的阿联酋石油天然气公司(ADNOC)希望到2030年将产能提高6倍，达到每年500万吨。 The oilmen’s critics allege that their enthusiasm for carbon removal is mainly about improving their reputations in the eyes of increasingly climate-conscious consumers, while pumping more crude for longer. There is surely some truth to this. 批评石油商的人士声称，他们对碳去除的热情主要是为了提高他们在日益关注气候变化的消费者眼中的声誉，同时延长更多原油的开采时间。这肯定有一些道理。 But given the urgent need to both capture carbon at source and achieve voluminous negative emissions, the willing involvement of giant oil firms, with their vast capital budgets and useful expertise in engineering and geology, is to be welcomed. ■ 但是，考虑到从源头上捕捉碳并实现大量负排放的迫切需要，大型石油公司的积极参与是值得欢迎的，因为它们拥有庞大的资本预算和在工程和地质方面的有用专业知识。￭ To stay on top of the biggest stories in business and technology, sign up to the Bottom Line , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. For more coverage of climate change, sign up for The Climate Issue , our fortnightly subscriber-only newsletter, or visit our climate-change hub . 要了解商业和技术领域最重要的新闻，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯“底线”。要获得更多关于气候变化的报道，请注册气候问题，我们每两周一次的订阅通讯，或者访问我们的气候变化中心。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/21/can-carbon-removal-become-a-trillion-dollar-business 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/21/can-carbon-removal-become-a-trillion-dollar-business 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Deutsche Bahn 德国铁路 It will take years to get Deutsche Bahn back on track 让 Deutsche Bahn 重回正轨需要数年时间 Europe’s biggest rail operator has gone off the rails 欧洲最大的铁路运营商已经脱轨 May 25th 2023 | BERLIN 2023年5月25日 | 柏林 I N MID-MAY GERMANS were bracing for the third, and longest, national rail strike this year. Deutsche Bahn ( DB ) was locked in a dispute over pay with EVG , the union representing most German railway workers, including 180,000 at the state-run behemoth. At the last minute union leaders called off a 50-hour stoppage that was going to begin on the evening of May 14th. German travellers breathed a sigh of relief—and then gasped as DB failed to reinstate all of the 50,000 cancelled services. The next day roads were clogged by commuters who, worried about getting stuck at a train station, took the car instead. 五月中旬，德国人正在为今年第三次也是最长的一次全国铁路罢工做准备。德国联邦铁路公司(Deutsche Bahn)与代表大多数德国铁路工人的工会 EVG 陷入了薪酬纠纷，其中包括这家国有铁路巨头的18万名工人。在最后一刻，工会领导人取消了原定于5月14日晚上开始的50个小时的罢工。德国游客松了一口气ーー随后，当 DB 未能恢复全部被取消的5万条航线时，他们倒吸了一口凉气。第二天，道路被上班族堵塞，他们担心被困在火车站，于是改乘汽车。 On May 23rd DB and the union met for a fourth round of wage talks, with no long-term resolution in sight. And labour unrest is only one of many fronts on which DB is fighting. Once a source of national pride, it has become the butt of bad jokes (“We have one about DB but we don’t know whether it will work”). In April just 70% of its long-distance trains were on time. And even that was an improvement on the whole of last year, when only 60% were punctual; the company’s (unambitious) goal is at least 80%. DB services are “too crowded, too old and too kaputt ”, Berthold Huber, who sits on DB ’s board, told the Süddeutsche Zeitung, a daily, this month. 5月23日，DB 和工会举行了第四轮工资谈判，但没有达成长期解决方案。而劳工骚乱只是 DB 正在抗争的众多战线之一。它曾经是民族自豪感的来源，现在却成了冷笑话的笑柄(“我们有一个关于 DB 的，但是我们不知道它是否会起作用”)。四月份，只有70% 的长途列车准点。甚至这也是去年全年的一个进步，当时只有60% 的人是准时的; 公司(没有雄心壮志)的目标是至少80% 。DB 董事会成员贝托尔德•胡贝尔(Berthold Huber)本月对《南德意志报》(a daily)表示，DB 的服务“过于拥挤、过于陈旧、过于糟糕”。 DB ’s woes are the result of poor management, a bloated bureaucracy, political interference and years of underinvestment. In 2004 DB ’s annual budget for the construction and upgrading of railway lines was cut from €4bn ($5bn) a year to €1.5bn, notes Christian Böttger of the University of Applied Sciences in Berlin. It has edged up since but last year was still only €1.9bn. This year it will be €2bn. DB 的困境是管理不善、官僚机构臃肿、政治干预和多年投资不足的结果。柏林应用科学大学(University of Applied Sciences)的克里斯蒂安•博特格尔(Christian Böttger)指出，2004年，德国开发银行用于铁路建设和改造的年度预算从每年40亿欧元(合50亿美元)削减至15亿欧元。自那以来，这一数字有所上升，但去年仍只有19亿欧元。今年将达到20亿欧元。 The railway business has been bleeding money for years; in 2022 it made an operating loss of €500m. DB ’s overall operating profit of €1.3bn, on revenues of €56bn, was all down to its logistics arm, DB Schenker, which has benefited from the uptick in e-commerce and now contributes nearly half of sales. 多年来，铁路业务一直在亏损; 2022年，铁路业务亏损5亿欧元。DB 的总营业利润为13亿欧元，营业收入为560亿欧元，这一切都归功于其物流部门 DB Schenker。该部门受益于电子商务的增长，目前贡献了近一半的销售额。 Vowing to make up for the failings of its predecessors, Olaf Scholz’s newish cabinet has ambitious plans for DB . It wants to pump an extra €45bn into the network, hoping almost to double the number of passenger journeys by 2030 to around 4bn, and to increase freight volumes by 25%. This year DB is beginning to renovate and modernise 650 train stations, as well as upgrading 2,000km of tracks, 1,800 switch points and 200 bridges. 奥拉夫•肖尔茨(Olaf Scholz)的新内阁誓言要弥补前任的失败，对 DB 制定了雄心勃勃的计划。它希望向铁路网注入额外的450亿欧元，希望到2030年将客运量增加一倍，达到40亿欧元左右，并将货运量增加25% 。今年，DB 开始对650个火车站进行翻新和现代化改造，并对2000公里的轨道、1800个转换点和200座桥梁进行升级改造。 It will also add another 500 people to its 4,300-strong team of security personnel, who are tasked with protecting train tracks against mischief-makers (last October DB was hit by suspected sabotage, causing the suspension of all services in northern Germany). And it is accelerating the digitisation of railway traffic, from signals and switches to digital “twins” of wagons ferrying goods. 它还将在其4300多名安全人员的团队中再增加500人，这些人的任务是保护铁轨免受恶作剧者的破坏(去年10月德国铁路局被怀疑遭到破坏，导致德国北部的所有服务暂停)。它正在加速铁路交通的数字化，从信号和交换机到运输货物的货车的数字“双胞胎”。 In time this may improve passengers’ lot. But not soon. This year carriages may get more packed: since May 1st Germans can buy a monthly Deutschland ticket, valid on all regional and local trains, for just €49. Delays and missed connections are forecast to be worse than in 2022, in part owing to all those upgrade works. And DB may slip into the red. It is forecasting a loss of €1bn from operations in 2023, because of the investments, as well as high cost inflation that is politically tough to pass on to travellers (who, in a further drain on DB cash, can demand compensation for all the delays). “The pretence of running an economically viable business was abandoned …long ago,” says Mr Böttger. It is all about getting more cash from the state. ■ 随着时间的推移，这可能会改善乘客的命运。但不是很快。今年的车厢可能会变得更加拥挤: 自5月1日起，德国人可以购买每月的德国车票，有效的所有地区和当地的火车，只需 something 49。预计延误和错过连接的情况将比2022年更严重，部分原因是所有这些升级工程。数据库可能会出现赤字。德意志银行预计，由于这些投资以及高成本通胀，德意志银行2023年的运营将亏损10亿欧元，这在政治上很难转嫁给旅行者(旅行者可以要求对所有延误进行赔偿，这将进一步消耗德意志银行的现金)。伯特格先生说: “经营一家经济上可行的企业的幌子早就被抛弃了。”。这一切都是为了从国家获得更多的现金。￭ To stay on top of the biggest stories in business and technology, sign up to the Bottom Line , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 要了解商业和技术领域最重要的新闻，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯“底线”。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/it-will-take-years-to-get-deutsche-bahn-back-on-track 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/it-will-take-years-to-get-deutsche-bahn-back-on-track 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Muscle and memory 肌肉和记忆 Asian businesses are being dragged into the chip war 亚洲企业正被卷入芯片战争 China’s decision to ban Micron puts South Korea’s semiconductor manufacturers in an awkward spot 中国禁止美光的决定让韩国半导体制造商陷入尴尬境地 May 25th 2023 | Singapore 2023年5月25日 | 新加坡 U NLIKE LOGIC chips, which process information, memory chips, which store it, looked less vulnerable to the Sino-American techno-tussle. Such semiconductors are commodities, less high-tech than microprocessors and so less central to the great-power struggle for technological supremacy. 与处理信息的 LOGIC 芯片不同，存储信息的内存芯片在中美技术角力中显得不那么脆弱。这些半导体是大宗商品，不如微处理器高科技，因此在大国争夺技术霸权的斗争中不那么重要。 That changed on May 21st, when the Chinese government banned memory chips made by Micron from critical-infrastructure projects. The restriction hurts the American chipmaker, which last year derived 11% of its revenue from mainland China. 5月21日，当中国政府禁止美光公司生产的存储芯片进入关键基础设施项目时，情况发生了变化。这一限制措施损害了这家美国芯片制造商的利益，该公司去年11% 的收入来自中国大陆。 It also opens up a new front in the transpacific chip war—one which the countries that are near China but allies of America are being roped into. 它还在跨太平洋芯片战争中开辟了一条新战线，那些靠近中国但是美国盟友的国家正在被拉入这场战争。 By opening a gap in the market, the ban creates an opportunity for the world’s two biggest memory-chip makers, Samsung Electronics and SK Hynix, both from South Korea. They made 16% and 44% of their respective sales in China in 2021. With Micron frozen out of critical infrastructure—and looking riskier to other Chinese buyers—the South Korean duo can pick up more contracts. 通过打开市场缺口，该禁令为全球两大存储芯片制造商——三星电子(Samsung Electronics)和 SK 海力士(SK Hynix)——创造了机会。2021年，他们在中国的销售额分别占到总销售额的16% 和44% 。由于美光被排除在关键基础设施之外，而且在其他中国买家看来风险更大，这两家韩国公司可以获得更多合同。 That is what investors seem to have concluded: Samsung’s share price is at its highest since April 2022; SK Hynix’s was last this lofty in August. 这似乎是投资者得出的结论: 三星股价处于2022年4月以来的最高水平; SK 海力士(SK Hynix)的股价上一次达到这一水平是在去年8月。 The prospect of a windfall for South Korea’s chipmakers is, however, complicated by the country’s blend of American and Chinese interests. 然而，韩国芯片制造商获得意外之财的前景，由于美国和中国的利益交织在一起而变得更加复杂。 President Joe Biden’s administration has made no official demand asking its counterpart in Seoul to prevent the South Korean firms from jumping in to fill orders for which Micron will no longer be able to compete. But it is said to be lobbying for this behind closed doors. 美国总统乔•拜登(Joe Biden)的政府没有正式要求首尔的美国政府阻止韩国公司参与美光再也无法竞争的订单。但据说，该公司正在私下为此进行游说。 The 28,500 American troops stationed in South Korea to protect it against its despotic nuclear-armed neighbour to the north lend weight to such requests. 驻扎在韩国的28,500名美国士兵保护韩国免受朝鲜这个拥有核武器的专制邻国的威胁，这一要求也很有说服力。 At the same time, Seoul has little interest in damaging its commercial ties with China. South Korea exported $156bn-worth of goods, equivalent to 9% of its GDP , to the country in 2022, and imported roughly the same amount. That makes China its largest trading partner by some distance. 与此同时，韩国无意破坏与中国的商业关系。2022年，韩国向朝鲜出口了价值1560亿美元的商品，相当于其国内生产总值(GDP)的9% ，进口量也大致相当。这使得中国在一定程度上成为其最大的贸易伙伴。 On May 24th the South Korean government formally asked America to review the rules which limit American subsidies to chipmakers if the recipient expands its Chinese production capacity of advanced chips by more than 5% over ten years. 5月24日，韩国政府正式要求美国重新审查限制美国对芯片制造商补贴的规定，如果接受国在十年内将中国先进芯片的生产能力扩大5% 以上。 South Korea is, in other words, treading carefully. Any public attempt to guide Samsung and SK Hynix risks upsetting Beijing, which is already fuming: on May 22nd a spokesperson for China’s foreign ministry said America had “coerced other countries into imposing export restrictions on China for the sole purpose of maintaining its hegemonic interests”. 换句话说，韩国正在谨慎行事。任何公开指导三星和 SK 海力士的尝试都有可能激怒已经怒火中烧的北京: 5月22日，中国外交部发言人表示，美国“胁迫其他国家对中国实施出口限制，唯一目的就是维护其霸权利益”。 The official line from Seoul is, for the time being, that it is up to the companies how they respond. That strategic ambiguity may not be viable for much longer. ■ 韩国政府的官方说法是，就目前而言，这取决于企业如何回应。这种战略模糊性可能不会持续太久。￭ To stay on top of the biggest stories in business and technology, sign up to the Bottom Line , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 要了解商业和技术领域最重要的新闻，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯“底线”。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/asian-businesses-are-being-dragged-into-the-chip-war 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/asian-businesses-are-being-dragged-into-the-chip-war 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Reactivated 重新激活 Why activist investors are going to have a busy year 为什么维权投资者今年会很忙 If you think they have gone soft, think again 如果你认为他们已经软化，再想想 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 C ARL ICAHN owns 1.4% of Illumina, a genomics giant with a market value of $34bn. Mr Icahn’s modest stake belies his ambition. As the elder statesman of activist investing, the 87-year-old aims to convert small shareholdings into considerable influence. 卡尔 ICAHN 拥有 Illumina 公司1.4% 的股份，Illumina 是一家市值340亿美元的基因组巨头。伊坎先生的微薄利益掩盖了他的雄心壮志。作为维权投资领域的资深政治家，这位87岁的老人的目标是将小额股权转化为相当大的影响力。 Mr Icahn has nominated three directors to the board of Illumina, whose share price has fallen by 60% since its peak in 2021, in part owing to hubristic dealmaking. On May 25th, after The Economist was published, Mr Icahn’s colourful campaign against the firm’s bosses (16 letters, drawing on Shakespeare and Lincoln) will reach a climax at its annual general meeting. 伊坎先生已经提名三名董事进入 Illumina 公司的董事会，该公司的股价自2021年达到顶峰以来已经下跌了60% ，部分原因是由于傲慢的交易。5月25日，在《经济学人》出版之后，伊坎先生针对公司老板的活动(16封信，引用了莎士比亚和林肯)将在年度股东大会上达到高潮。 It is one of the hottest tickets in this year’s “proxy season”, when most American firms elect their boards of directors. 这是今年“代理季”中最热门的门票之一，大多数美国公司都是在这个季节选举董事会成员。 After a dismal year, when activist funds lost 16% of their value as stockmarkets slumped, many observers were expecting a spring offensive. Fund managers had a busy end to 2022, taking advantage of those sunken stockmarket valuations. 在经历了惨淡的一年之后，由于股市暴跌，维权基金市值缩水了16% ，许多观察人士原本预计会出现皇帝会战。2022年底，基金经理们利用股市估值下跌的机会，忙碌地度过了年底。 New corporate-governance rules introduced last September make it easier for dissident investors to obtain board seats, by compelling firms to include all nominees on proxy ballots and allowing shareholders to mix and match those proposed by the company and by its detractors, rather than pick alternative slates. 去年9月出台的新的公司治理规则使得持不同政见的投资者更容易获得董事会席位，通过强制公司将所有提名人包括在代理投票中，允许股东混合并匹配公司及其批评者提出的人选，而不是选择其他人选。 “Asked in December, I would have said this is going to be a proxy season for the ages,” says Kai Liekefett of Sidley Austin, a law firm. 盛德国际律师事务所(Sidley Austin)的凯•利克菲特(Kai Liekefett)表示: “在12月份被问及这个问题时，我会说，这将是一个长久以来的代理季节。”。 Five months on things are, at first blush, looking less epochal. In the first quarter of 2023 the number of new activist campaigns in America was a third lower than a year earlier, according to Lazard, an investment bank. 五个月的时间，乍一看，似乎不那么划时代。投资银行 Lazard 的数据显示，2023年第一季度，美国新激进主义运动的数量比去年同期减少了三分之一。 With dealmaking at its most subdued in a decade, “transactional” funds, shorter-term investors which agitate for anything from spin-offs of units to the sale of the whole company, are finding little traction. Few big-ticket fights made it to contested votes for board spots. 随着交易撮合处于10年来最低迷的时期，“交易型”基金——鼓吹从剥离部门到出售整个公司等任何事情的短期投资者——几乎找不到什么吸引力。很少有大赌注的比赛能进入争夺董事会席位的竞争性投票。 Yet the quietude may be deceiving. For one thing, many targets, worried that the new rules favour activists, have sought a truce rather than risk a painful proxy brawl. 然而，这种平静可能具有欺骗性。一方面，许多目标担心新规定有利于维权人士，因此寻求休战，而不是冒险进行痛苦的代理权争斗。 In February Trian, an activist outfit run by Nelson Peltz, ended its battle against Disney after the entertainment behemoth presented a restructuring plan. 今年2月，由纳尔逊•佩尔茨(Nelson Peltz)管理的维权组织 Trian 在迪士尼提交重组计划后，结束了与迪士尼的竞争。 Elliott Management, another activist giant, called off plans to nominate directors to the board of Salesforce in March, two months after the software firm appointed the boss of ValueAct, another well-known fund, to its board. 今年3月，另一家维权巨头埃利奥特管理公司(Elliott Management)取消了向 Salesforce 董事会提名董事的计划。两个月前，这家软件公司任命了另一家知名基金 ValueAct 的老板进入其董事会。 This month Shake Shack, a fast-food retailer, announced a settlement agreement with Engaged Capital, a smaller activist fund. Such truces may be less entertaining for outside observers than Mr Icahn’s antics, but for the activists they are wins nonetheless. 本月，快餐零售商 Shake Shack 宣布与规模较小的维权基金 EngagedCapital 达成和解协议。这样的休战对于外部观察家来说可能没有伊坎先生的滑稽动作那么有趣，但是对于活动家来说，他们还是赢了。 Fifteen years of rock-bottom interest rates and cheap money have created a target-rich environment. As the cost of capital rises, activists spy plenty of management teams that could do with more discipline. 15年的低利率和廉价资金创造了一个富有目标的环境。随着资金成本的上升，活动人士发现，许多管理团队需要更严格的纪律。 On May 11th Elliott revealed it owned 10% of Goodyear, a tyremaker with a market value of around $4bn, along with a plan to sell retail stores and bolster margins. Four days later the hedge fund announced a 13% interest in NRG , an $8bn energy company, calling its recent acquisition of Vivint, a home-security firm, “the single worst deal” the power-and-utilities sector has seen in the past decade. Both campaigns attempt to focus managers’ minds and streamline the companies’ operations. 5月11日，埃利奥特透露，该公司持有市值约40亿美元的轮胎制造商固特异(Goodyear)10% 的股份，并计划出售零售店以提高利润率。四天后，对冲基金宣布对价值80亿美元的能源公司 NRG 拥有13% 的股份，并称其最近对 Vivint 家庭安全公司的收购是电力和公用事业部门在过去十年中“最糟糕的一笔交易”。这两场运动都试图集中管理者的注意力，并精简公司的运营。 The share prices of Goodyear and NRG jumped by 21% and 3%, respectively, on the news of Elliott’s stakes. 埃利奥特入股的消息传出后，固特异和 NRG 的股价分别上涨了21% 和3% 。 Activists are also pursuing larger prey. Campaigns involving companies with market capitalisations above $50bn made up a record share of activity during the first quarter of 2023. Some funds are taking aim at technology firms, which accounted for a quarter of campaigns in America last year. 活动人士也在追逐更大的猎物。2023年第一季度，市值超过500亿美元的公司参与的宣传活动，在活动中所占份额达到创纪录水平。一些基金瞄准了科技公司，这些公司去年在美国占据了四分之一的市场份额。 Tech’s retreat from the pandemic-induced boom in all things digital presents activists with an opportunity to force cost-cutting or shedding unprofitable businesses. 科技从流行病引发的所有数字产业的繁荣中退出，为活动人士提供了一个机会，迫使他们削减成本，或者剥离无利可图的业务。 Technology giants’ vast market capitalisations—Salesforce is worth $200bn—allow activists to deploy large sums without passing ownership thresholds that would trigger disclosures of their stakes before they are ready to launch the public-facing part of their campaigns. 科技巨头庞大的市值(Salesforce 市值达2000亿美元)使维权人士能够在不超过所有权门槛的情况下部署大笔资金，这将导致他们在准备发起面向公众的部分运动之前披露所持股份。 Not even the biggest of big tech, hitherto largely spared the activists’ rod, is safe. This month Pershing Square and Third Point, two hedge funds, revealed investments in Alphabet, Google’s $1.5trn parent company. Third Point insists its stake is not an activist campaign. 即使是迄今基本上没有受到激进分子抨击的最大型科技公司，也不是安全的。本月，两家对冲基金 Pershing Square 和 Third Point 披露了对谷歌1.5万亿美元母公司 Alphabet 的投资。Third Point 坚称，它所持股份不是一场激进运动。 It and Pershing may still benefit from the earlier efforts of TCI , another fund already on the warpath against Alphabet’s high costs and cash-burning moonshots. 它和潘兴仍可能受益于 TCI 早些时候的努力。 TCI 是另一家已经开始反对 Alphabet 高成本和烧钱的登月计划的基金。 American activists will also increasingly export their version of shareholder capitalism abroad. 美国活动人士也将越来越多地向海外输出他们版本的股东资本主义。 In addition to large regional players, such as Cevian Capital in Europe, high-profile American fund managers have become familiar faces in the world’s business circles, making it easier for them to engage with other shareholders. 除了欧洲的 Cevian Capital 等大型地区性基金公司外，知名的美国基金管理公司已成为全球商界熟悉的面孔，这使它们更容易与其它股东打交道。 Even as new campaigns in America languished at the start of the year, activity in Europe and Asia has surged. 尽管今年年初美国的新竞选活动停滞不前，但欧洲和亚洲的竞选活动却激增。 Take Japan. Many of those who picked fights there in the past, like T. Boone Pickens, a corporate raider who took on Koito Manufacturing in the 1980s, or TCI , which in 2008 dropped its investment in J -Power, an electric utility, came back bruised. Now, thanks to corporate-governance reforms over the past decade, Japan Inc has had no choice but to become more receptive. 以日本为例。许多过去在那里挑起争端的人，比如上世纪80年代收购了小东制造(Koito Manufacturing)的企业掠夺者托·布恩·皮肯斯，以及2008年放弃对电力公用事业公司日本电力(J-Power)投资的 TCI，回来时都受了伤。现在，由于过去十年的公司治理改革，日本公司别无选择，只能变得更容易接受。 New stockmarket guidelines will go so far as to ask companies worth less than the book value of their equity to disclose their initiatives for improvement. 新的股票市场指导方针甚至要求市值低于其股本账面价值的公司披露其改进举措。 Activists do not always prevail. On May 25th ValueAct lost a proxy battle to elect four directors to the board of Seven & i, the Japanese conglomerate which owns the 7-Eleven chain of convenience stores. This month Mr Icahn himself became the target of an activist attack. 活动人士并不总是占上风。5月25日，ValueAct 在选举 Seven & i 董事会四名董事的代理权争夺战中败北。 Seven & i 是日本企业集团，旗下拥有7-11连锁便利店。这个月，伊坎先生自己成为了激进分子攻击的目标。 A short-seller, Hindenburg Research, claims that his listed vehicle, Icahn Enterprises, is overvalued. In response to the assault, Mr Icahn denied Hindenburg’s allegations and defended the style of investing he pioneered. 一个卖空者，兴登堡研究，声称他的上市工具，伊坎企业，被高估。作为对袭击的回应，伊坎先生否认了兴登堡的指控，并为他开创的投资风格进行了辩护。 Activists, he argued, “breach the walls” of badly run companies. Whether or not Mr Icahn’s own firm deserves activist treatment, plenty of others certainly do. ■ 他认为，活动人士“打破了”经营不善的公司的“围墙”。无论伊坎先生自己的公司是否值得激进主义者的对待，很多其他公司当然值得。￭ To stay on top of the biggest stories in business and technology, sign up to the Bottom Line , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 要了解商业和技术领域最重要的新闻，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯“底线”。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/why-activist-investors-are-going-to-have-a-busy-year 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/why-activist-investors-are-going-to-have-a-busy-year 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Zell-side analysis Zell 侧分析 What properties would Sam Zell invest in next? Sam Zell 接下来会投资什么地产？ One of America’s mightiest property tycoons died on May 19th, aged 81 美国最有权势的地产大亨之一于5月19日去世，享年81岁 May 25th 2023 | New York 2023年5月25日 | 纽约 S AM ZELL called himself “the Grave Dancer”, even though, as he explained, his penchant for buying distressed assets “wasn’t so much dancing on graves as …raising the dead”. In the mid-1970s, when he coined this nickname, America’s property market was struggling. 萨姆•泽尔(SAM ZELL)称自己为“坟墓舞者”，尽管正如他解释的那样，他购买不良资产的嗜好“与其说是在坟墓上跳舞，不如说是在... ... 唤醒死者”。20世纪70年代中期，当他创造这个绰号时，美国的房地产市场正在苦苦挣扎。 Mr Zell, who died on May 18th at the age of 81 and with a fortune of more than $5bn, had already made good money erecting and managing apartment buildings in small but growing cities. But after others cottoned on to the same opportunity, the market became saturated. 泽尔先生于5月18日去世，享年81岁，拥有超过50亿美元的财富，他已经在小城市建造和管理公寓大楼中赚了不少钱。但在其他人意识到同样的机会之后，市场变得饱和。 Supply exceeded demand; property prices crashed. Undeterred, he bought flats, offices and retail space, often for pennies. As America’s economy boomed in the 1980s, their value soared. 供过于求，房地产价格暴跌。但他没有被吓倒，他买了公寓、写字楼和零售店，往往只花了几分钱。20世纪80年代，随着美国经济的蓬勃发展，它们的价值飙升。 He danced on more graves after Black Monday in October 1987. With rents and occupancy rates falling, indebted property owners needed money, and turned to capital markets. 1987年10月黑色星期一之后，他在更多的坟墓上跳舞。随着租金和入住率的下降，负债累累的业主需要资金，于是转向了资本市场。 He created a fund with Merrill Lynch, an investment bank, that raised capital from investors to buy distressed properties. Such real-estate investment trusts ( REIT s), which own, run or finance properties, date back to the 1960s. But it was Mr Zell who helped usher in their modern version, says Michael Knott of Green Street, a firm of real-estate analysts. 他与投资银行美林(Merrill Lynch)共同创建了一只基金，从投资者那里筹集资金，用于购买不良资产。这种房地产投资信托基金(REITs)拥有、运营或融资房地产，其历史可以追溯到上世纪60年代。但是，正是泽尔先生帮助开创了他们的现代版本，房地产分析公司 Green Street 的迈克尔•诺特(Michael Knott)说。 Mr Zell was born to Polish-Jewish parents who narrowly escaped the Holocaust. He got his start in business early, buying Playboy magazines in downtown Chicago, where he went to Hebrew school, for 50 cents and selling them to classmates in the suburb where he lived for $3. He wore jeans to work long before office-casual was a thing, and took motorcycle-riding trips around the world with a group of friends, “Zell’s Angels”. 泽尔先生的父母是波兰犹太人，他们侥幸逃过了大屠杀。他很早就开始做生意，在芝加哥市中心以50美分的价格买下《花花公子》杂志，然后以3美元的价格卖给住在郊区的同学。早在上班之前，他就穿着牛仔裤上班——休闲装很流行，还和一群朋友“泽尔的天使”(Zell’s Angels)一起骑摩托车环游世界。 He explained his business philosophy as “If it ain’t fun, we don’t do it.” His timing was impeccable. In 2007 he sold his office-landlord business to Blackstone, a private-equity giant, for $39bn. A year later Lehman Brothers collapsed—and the commercial-property market with it. 他解释自己的商业哲学是“如果不好玩，我们就不做。”他来得正是时候。2007年，他以390亿美元的价格将自己的办公室业主业务出售给了私募股权巨头黑石集团(Blackstone)。一年后，雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产，商业地产市场也随之崩溃。 Where would a young Mr Zell look to build his fortune today? Stephanie Wright of New York University thinks that, given his preference for easy-to-understand markets with limited competition, outdoor storage facilities could pique his interest. 年轻的泽尔先生今天会去哪里发财呢？纽约大学(New York University)的斯蒂芬妮•赖特(Stephanie Wright)认为，鉴于他偏爱有限竞争、易于理解的市场，户外存储设施可能会激起他的兴趣。 They are big but employ few people, meaning cities dislike them and limit their growth, even though demand remains robust. The same goes for parks of prefabricated homes, the business of the first company Mr Zell ever took public, in 1993. People still buy them, yet zoning laws restrict them. 它们规模很大，但雇佣的人却很少，这意味着城市不喜欢它们，限制了它们的增长，尽管需求依然强劲。1993年，泽尔先生的第一家上市公司——预制房屋公园也是如此。人们仍然购买它们，但是分区法律限制了它们。 Once a house is installed on the property, homeowners rarely move it. On the rare occasions when one does, the developer still has the land and can put another home in its place. 一旦房子安装在房产上，业主很少搬家。在极少数情况下，当一个人这样做，开发商仍然有土地，可以把另一个家在它的地方。 Conventional wisdom argues for staying away from the office and retail assets that helped make Mr Zell a billionaire. American malls have long been written off for dead, bricks and mortar deemed to be no match for e-commerce. 传统观点认为，要远离让泽尔先生成为亿万富翁的办公室和零售资产。长期以来，美国的商场一直被认为是无法与电子商务相抗衡的。 In the era of remote and hybrid work, leasing activity is slowing across most big American cities even as employment continues to rise, according to CBRE , a property manager. Office-vacancy rates are increasing—to 17.8% across America in the first three months of 2023, the highest level in 30 years. Even though some upscale malls and office buildings are thriving, many older and shabbier properties look destined for obsolescence. 物业管理公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)表示，在远程和混合工作的时代，尽管就业率持续上升，但美国大多数大城市的租赁活动都在放缓。办公室空置率正在上升ーー2023年前三个月，全美办公室空置率达到17.8% ，为30年来的最高水平。尽管一些高档购物中心和写字楼正在蓬勃发展，但许多老旧破旧的房产看起来注定要被淘汰。 Yet to Mr Zell those failing assets may have looked the most attractive of all. For in failure, as any grave dancer knows, lies opportunity. ■ 然而，对于泽尔先生来说，这些破产的资产可能看起来是最具吸引力的。因为任何舞者都知道，失败就意味着机会。￭ To stay on top of the biggest stories in business and technology, sign up to the Bottom Line , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 要了解商业和技术领域最重要的新闻，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯“底线”。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/what-properties-would-sam-zell-invest-in-next 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/what-properties-would-sam-zell-invest-in-next 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Fine and dandy 好极了 Meta gets whacked with a €1.2bn penalty Meta 被罚款12亿欧元 It is the biggest punishment yet for breaching the EU’s privacy rules 这是迄今为止对违反欧盟隐私规定的最大惩罚 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 On May 22nd the EU whacked Meta with a €1.2bn ($1.3bn) fine for transferring users’ data to America, in breach of European privacy rules (which turn five this week). The social-media giant is a repeat offender when it comes to privacy breaches. But the EU has reserved the biggest penalties for other sins. Between 2017 and 2019 Google was fined a total of over €8bn for abusing its dominance in search and advertising. Both Google and Meta can afford it; the fines represent a fraction of their profits. ■ 5月22日，欧盟对 Meta 处以12亿欧元(合13亿美元)的罚款，原因是该公司将用户数据传输到美国，违反了欧洲隐私规定(本周该规定将生效)。这家社交媒体巨头在侵犯隐私方面屡试不爽。但是欧盟保留了对其他罪行的最大惩罚。2017年至2019年间，谷歌因滥用其在搜索和广告领域的主导地位，共被处以逾80亿英镑的罚款。谷歌和梅塔都负担得起，罚款只是他们利润的一小部分。￭ To stay on top of the biggest stories in business and technology, sign up to the Bottom Line , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 要了解商业和技术领域最重要的新闻，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯“底线”。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/meta-gets-whacked-with-a-eu12bn-penalty 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/meta-gets-whacked-with-a-eu12bn-penalty 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Bartleby 巴特比 Why are corporate retreats so extravagant? 为什么公司的休假如此奢侈？ Companies’ summer camps get unnecessarily creative 企业的夏令营不必要地富有创造性 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 I CE BATHS , infrared saunas, white-water rafting, fly-fishing, archery workshops, whisky tastings, yoga at sunrise, shooting clay pigeons, go-kart races, mountain-biking in Norway, falconry in Ireland, climbing up a glacier in Alberta, singing “Kumbaya” around a campfire. 冰浴、红外线桑拿、激流漂流、飞钓、射箭工作坊、威士忌品尝会、日出时的瑜伽、射陶鸽、卡丁车比赛、挪威的山地自行车、爱尔兰的猎鹰活动、阿尔伯塔的冰川攀登、围着篝火唱“ Kumbaya”。 These seemingly disparate activities have one thing in common: all of them are real examples of the contemporary corporate off-site. 这些看似完全不同的活动有一个共同点: 它们都是当代企业场外活动的真实例子。 Your columnist, a guest Bartleby, cringes at the idea of PowerPoint presentations followed by role-playing exercises and mandatory games. She prefers to let the ties with her colleagues deepen in organic ways. Still, the executive retreat has become an annual business tradition. 你的专栏作家，客人 Bartleby，对于 PPT 演示，然后是角色扮演练习和强制性游戏的想法感到畏缩。她更喜欢以有机的方式加深与同事之间的联系。尽管如此，高管度假已成为一年一度的商业传统。 The idea is that, by disconnecting employees from their day-to-day routine, companies can build camaraderie and foster creativity. And it has grown in importance. 他们的想法是，通过让员工脱离日常工作，公司可以建立友谊，培养创造力。而且越来越重要了。 A splashy, exciting getaway once a year may help retain executives in a tight labour market (and is cheaper than fatter monthly pay cheques). 每年一次引人注目、令人兴奋的度假，可能有助于在紧张的劳动力市场中留住高管(而且比每月更丰厚的薪水更便宜)。 In the era of remote work—without the thousands of micro-interactions that happen in the office—team-building trips have also gained a structural role. Suddenly, off-sites are no longer an afterthought but lodged near the heart of corporate HR strategy. Not participating is not an option; so what if co-workers end up meeting in person for the first time wearing flip-flops? 在远程工作的时代ーー没有办公室里发生的成千上万的微型互动ーー团队建设之旅也获得了一种结构性作用。突然之间，外部网站不再是事后才考虑的问题，而是成为了企业人力资源战略的核心。不参与是不可能的; 那么，如果同事们最终穿着人字拖第一次面对面地见面，又该怎么办呢？ It used to be barbecues and softball games. Retreats moved things a notch higher in style and expense. Just three months after Steve Jobs left Apple and started another company in 1985, he whisked his employees to Pebble Beach for their first off-site. 以前是烧烤和垒球比赛。务虚会在风格和费用上都提高了一个档次。1985年，史蒂夫•乔布斯(Steve Jobs)离开苹果(Apple) ，创办了另一家公司，仅仅三个月后，他就带着员工们来到圆石滩(Pebble Beach) ，开始了他们的第一次离职。 As corporate psychology boomed in the 1990s, team-building retreats became entrenched. 随着上世纪90年代企业心理学的蓬勃发展，团队建设务虚会变得根深蒂固。 By 2015 Uber was reportedly offering Beyoncé $6m to perform for its employees (no, not the drivers) at a corporate event in Las Vegas (the pop star was apparently paid in the then-hot startup’s stock rather than cash). 据报道，到2015年，优步向碧昂斯支付了600万美元，让她在拉斯维加斯的一个公司活动中为其员工(不，不是司机)表演(这位流行歌星显然是以当时炙手可热的初创公司的股票而不是现金支付的)。 WeWork, an office-rental firm with tech pretensions, used to host raucous summer retreats around the world; employees were encouraged to dance the night away to electronic music. WeWork 是一家自诩为科技公司的办公室租赁公司，过去常常在世界各地举办喧闹的夏季静修活动，鼓励员工在电子音乐的伴奏下彻夜跳舞。 Given Uber’s lacklustre ride since its initial public offering in 2019, current management has gone easy on A -listers. WeWork revised its staff-entertainment policies after its party-loving founder and CEO , Adam Neumann, was forced out in the wake of its abortive IPO later that year. But the trend for the corporate getaway has, if anything, intensified. 考虑到优步自2019年首次公开发行(IPO)以来表现平平，目前的管理层对一线明星相当宽容。WeWork 在其热爱派对的创始人兼首席执行官亚当•诺依曼(Adam Neumann)在当年晚些时候首次公开发行(IPO)流产后被迫离职后，修改了员工娱乐政策。但是，如果说有什么变化的话，那就是企业逃离的趋势加剧了。 To stand out, companies try to make their retreats as bespoke and exotic as possible. 为了脱颖而出，公司试图使他们的静修尽可能定制和异国情调。 Those firms that cannot afford pop stars can have an astronaut regale executives with tales of life in space—not Queen Bey, exactly, but potentially enthralling to the nerdier elements of the workforce. 那些请不起流行歌星的公司，可以请来一位宇航员，让高管们讲述太空生活的故事ーー准确地说，不是贝女王(Queen Bey) ，但可能会吸引职场中较为书呆子的人。 Many organisers opt for the great outdoors, perhaps in the belief that the sublime will unleash authenticity. Wineries around the world are now expanding to accommodate retreats featuring winemaking lessons; employees stomp grapes. 许多组织者选择户外活动，也许是因为他们相信这种崇高的活动将释放出真实性。世界各地的葡萄酒厂现在正在扩大，以适应以酿酒课程为特色的静修活动; 员工们跺着葡萄。 A Montana ranch offers corporate clients paintball, flag-capturing and dummy-cattle-roping. Butchershop, a brand-strategy agency, held its second summit in Costa Rica; activities included zip-lining, horseback riding through the jungle and jumping off a cliff into the water. 蒙大拿州的一个牧场为企业客户提供彩弹射击、旗帜捕捉和假牛绳。品牌战略机构 Butchershop 在哥斯达黎加举行了第二次峰会，活动包括滑索、马术穿越丛林和从悬崖跳入水中。 A sure-fire way for a business to make its retreat memorable is to thrust participants into adversity. Battling the elements together is supposed to foster team spirit, but zealous organisers have occasionally been known to overdo it. 一家企业要想让自己的撤退令人难忘，一个万无一失的办法就是让参与者陷入逆境。人们认为，一起与各种因素作斗争可以培养团队精神，但热心的组织者偶尔也会做得过火。 One large European company sent executives to the Arctic Circle in midwinter. They endured frigid temperatures for days, without a fresh change of clothes. 一家大型欧洲公司在仲冬派遣高管到北极圈。他们忍受了好几天的严寒，没有换新衣服。 Walking on hot coals—an ancient ritual recast as a team-building exercise—led to the injury of 25 employees of a Swiss ad agency in Zurich. 在滚烫的煤炭上行走导致苏黎世一家瑞士广告公司25名员工受伤。 It is unclear what many days away achieves, except for straining the expense budget and consuming valuable time. Returning to your desk with frostbite or burnt feet is unlikely to boost your productivity. 目前还不清楚多天的时间能达到什么效果，除了紧张的开支预算和消耗宝贵的时间。带着冻伤或者烧伤的脚回到办公桌前不太可能提高你的工作效率。 Even if you escape injury you may have lost esteem for the co-worker who drank too much and delivered a maudlin monologue. Walking on fire with colleagues may be meant to encourage spiritual healing and to put employees and bosses on equal—and equally uncomfortable—footing. 即使你避免了受伤，你可能也会对那个喝得太多、说着伤感独白的同事失去尊重。与同事一起火上浇油可能是为了鼓励精神疗伤，让员工和老板处于平等的地位，同样也让他们感到不舒服。 Yet it is walking through metaphorical fire which actually causes teams to bond. That happens not at a corporate retreat but after years of working together. ■ 然而，正是这种穿越隐喻性火焰的方式，实际上促使团队建立了联系。这种情况不会发生在公司度假村，而是在多年的合作之后。￭ Read more from Bartleby, our columnist on management and work: 阅读更多来自 Bartleby 的文章，我们的管理与工作专栏作家: Businesses’ bottleneck bane (May 18th) 商业瓶颈的祸根(5月18日) How to recruit with softer skills in mind (May 11th) 如何用软技能招聘(5月11日) A short guide to corporate rituals (May 4th) 企业仪式简介(5月4日) Also: How the Bartleby column got its name 还有: 巴特比专栏是如何得名的 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/why-are-corporate-retreats-so-extravagant 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/why-are-corporate-retreats-so-extravagant 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Schumpeter 熊彼特 The tech giants have an interest in AI regulation 科技巨头对人工智能监管很感兴趣 It is a way of holding back open-source proliferation 这是阻止开放源码扩散的一种方式 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 O NE OF THE joys of writing about business is that rare moment when you realise conventions are shifting in front of you. It brings a shiver down the spine. Vaingloriously, you start scribbling down every detail of your surroundings, as if you are drafting the opening lines of a bestseller. 写商业故事的乐趣之一就是当你意识到传统在你面前正在改变的时候。让人脊背发凉。你开始自负地草草记下周围环境的每一个细节，就好像你在起草一本畅销书的开篇。 It happened to your columnist recently in San Francisco, sitting in the pristine offices of Anthropic, a darling of the artificial-intelligence ( AI ) scene. When Jack Clark, one of Anthropic’s co-founders, drew an analogy between the Baruch Plan, a (failed) effort in 1946 to put the world’s atomic weapons under UN control, and the need for global co-ordination to prevent the proliferation of harmful AI , there was that old familiar tingle. When entrepreneurs compare their creations, even tangentially, to nuclear bombs, it feels like a turning point. 你的专栏作家最近在旧金山，坐在人工智能(AI)领域的宠儿 Anthroic 的原始办公室里，就发生了这样的事情。当“人类学”联合创始人之一杰克•克拉克(Jack Clark)将1946年旨在将全球核武器置于联合国控制之下的巴鲁克计划(Baruch Plan)(失败了)与防止有害人工智能扩散的全球协作需求相提并论时，我们听到了那种熟悉的老调重弹。当企业家们将他们的创造物与核弹相比较时，哪怕只是零星的比较，这感觉就像是一个转折点。 Since Chat GPT burst onto the scene late last year there has been no shortage of angst about the existential risks posed by AI. But this is different. Listen to some of the field’s pioneers and they are less worried about a dystopian future when machines outthink humans, and more about the dangers lurking within the stuff they are making now. Chat GPT is an example of “generative” AI , which creates humanlike content based on its analysis of texts, images and sounds on the internet. Sam Altman, CEO of Open AI , the startup that built it, told a congressional hearing this month that regulatory intervention is critical to manage the risks of the increasingly powerful “large language models” ( LLM s) behind the bots. 自从去年年底 ChatGPT 出现以来，人们一直对人工智能带来的生存风险感到不安。但这次不一样。听听这个领域的一些先驱者，他们不那么担心机器智力超过人类的反乌托邦未来，而更担心他们现在制造的东西中潜藏的危险。ChatGPT 是“生成性”人工智能的一个例子，它基于对互联网上的文本、图像和声音的分析，创建类似人类的内容。OpenAI 的首席执行官 Sam Altman 本月在国会听证会上表示，监管干预对于管理机器人背后日益强大的“大型语言模型”(LLM)的风险至关重要。 In the absence of rules, some of his counterparts in San Francisco say they have already set up back channels with government officials in Washington, DC , to discuss the potential harms discovered while examining their chatbots. These include toxic material, such as racism, and dangerous capabilities, like child-grooming or bomb-making. Mustafa Suleyman, co-founder of Inflection AI (and board member of The Economist ’s parent company), plans in coming weeks to offer generous bounties to hackers who can discover vulnerabilities in his firm’s digital talking companion, Pi. 由于缺乏相关规定，他在旧金山的一些同行表示，他们已经与华盛顿特区的政府官员建立了秘密渠道，讨论在检查聊天机器人时发现的潜在危害。这些包括有毒物质，如种族主义，和危险的能力，如儿童美容或制造炸弹。穆斯塔法·苏莱曼是善变人工智能的联合创始人(也是《经济学人》母公司的董事会成员) ，他计划在未来几周向能够发现他公司数字谈话伙伴派(Pi)漏洞的黑客提供慷慨的奖金。 Such caution makes this incipient tech boom look different from the past—at least on the surface. As usual, venture capital is rolling in. But unlike the “move fast and break things” approach of yesteryear, many of the startup pitches now are first and foremost about safety. 这种谨慎态度使得这场初露端倪的科技热潮与过去有所不同ーー至少表面上是这样。像往常一样，风险资本滚滚而来。但是不同于过去“快速行动，打破常规”的方法，现在许多初创公司的宣传首先是关于安全的。 The old Silicon Valley adage about regulation—that it is better to ask for forgiveness than permission—has been jettisoned. Startups such as Open AI , Anthropic and Inflection are so keen to convey the idea that they won’t sacrifice safety just to make money that they have put in place corporate structures that constrain profit-maximisation. 硅谷关于监管的古老格言ーー请求宽恕胜于许可ーー已被抛弃。诸如 OpenAI，Anthropico 和拒绝转变这样的初创公司非常热衷于传达这样一个理念: 他们不会为了赚钱而牺牲安全，他们已经建立了限制利润最大化的公司结构。 Another way in which this boom looks different is that the startups building their proprietary LLM s aren’t aiming to overturn the existing big-tech hierarchy. In fact they may help consolidate it. That is because their relationships with the tech giants leading in the race for generative AI are symbiotic. Open AI is joined at the hip to Microsoft, a big investor that uses the former’s technology to improve its software and search products. 这种繁荣看起来与众不同的另一个方面是，创建自有 LLM 的初创公司并不打算颠覆现有的大型科技公司的等级制度。事实上，他们可能有助于巩固它。这是因为它们与在生成性人工智能领域处于领先地位的科技巨头之间是共生关系。OpenAI 与微软(Microsoft)紧随其后，后者是一家大型投资机构，利用 OpenAI 的技术改进其软件和搜索产品。 Alphabet’s Google has a sizeable stake in Anthropic; on May 23rd the startup announced its latest funding round of $450m, which included more investment from the tech giant. Alphabet 旗下的谷歌在 Anthroic 公司持有相当大的股份; 5月23日，这家初创公司宣布了最新一轮4.5亿美元的融资，其中包括来自这家科技巨头的更多投资。 Making their business ties even tighter, the young firms rely on big tech’s cloud-computing platforms to train their models on oceans of data, which enable the chatbots to behave like human interlocutors. 让他们的业务联系更加紧密，这些年轻的公司依靠大型科技公司的云计算平台来训练他们的模型在海量的数据，这使得聊天机器人的行为像人类对话者。 Like the startups, Microsoft and Google are keen to show they take safety seriously—even as they battle each other fiercely in the chatbot race. They, too, argue that new rules are needed and that international co-operation on overseeing LLM s is essential. As Alphabet’s CEO , Sundar Pichai, put it, “ AI is too important not to regulate, and too important not to regulate well.” 与这些初创企业一样，微软和谷歌也热衷于展示自己对安全的重视ーー尽管它们在聊天机器人(chat bot)竞赛中彼此激烈竞争。他们也认为，需要制定新的规则，监督 LLM 的国际合作至关重要。正如 Alphabet 的首席执行官 Sundar Pichai 所说，“人工智能太重要了，不能不加以监管，也太重要了，不能监管得不好。” Such overtures may be perfectly justified by the risks of misinformation, electoral manipulation, terrorism, job disruption and other potential hazards that increasingly powerful AI models may spawn. Yet it is worth bearing in mind that regulation will also bring benefits to the tech giants. That is because it tends to reinforce existing market structures, creating costs that incumbents find easiest to bear, and raising barriers to entry. 越来越强大的人工智能模型可能产生错误信息、操纵选举、恐怖主义、工作中断以及其他潜在危险，这些风险可能完全证明这种提议是合理的。然而，值得记住的是，监管也会给科技巨头带来好处。这是因为它往往会加强现有的市场结构，创造现有企业认为最容易承受的成本，并提高进入壁垒。 This is important. If big tech uses regulation to fortify its position at the commanding heights of generative AI , there is a trade-off. The giants are more likely to deploy the technology to make their existing products better than to replace them altogether. They will seek to protect their core businesses (enterprise software in Microsoft’s case and search in Google’s). 这很重要。如果大型科技公司利用监管来巩固自己在生成性人工智能领域的制高点地位，那么就存在一种权衡。这些巨头更有可能利用这项技术来改进他们现有的产品，而不是完全取代它们。他们将寻求保护他们的核心业务(微软的企业软件和谷歌的搜索)。 Instead of ushering in an era of Schumpeterian creative destruction, it will serve as a reminder that large incumbents currently control the innovation process—what some call “creative accumulation”. The technology may end up being less revolutionary than it could be. 它不会迎来熊彼特式的创造性破坏时代，而是会提醒人们，大型现有企业目前控制着创新过程ーー一些人称之为“创造性积累”。这项技术的革命性可能不如它本来可能的那么强。 LLaMA on the loose LLama 在逃 Such an outcome is not a foregone conclusion. One of the wild cards is open-source AI , which has proliferated since March when LL a MA , the LLM developed by Meta, leaked online. Already the buzz in Silicon Valley is that open-source developers are able to build generative- AI models that are almost as good as the existing proprietary ones, and hundredths of the cost. 这样的结果并不是预料之中的。其中一个不确定因素是开源人工智能，自从今年3月份 Meta 开发的 LLM LLaMA 在网上泄露以来，这种技术已经大量增加。在硅谷，已经有一种传言称，开源开发人员能够构建几乎与现有专有模型一样好的生成式人工智能模型，而且成本只有现有模型的百分之一。 Anthropic’s Mr Clark describes open-source AI as a “very troubling concept”. Though it is a good way of speeding up innovation, it is also inherently hard to control, whether in the hands of a hostile state or a 17-year-old ransomware-maker. 人类学的克拉克先生将开源人工智能描述为一个“非常令人不安的概念”。尽管这是一种加速创新的好方法，但无论是在敌对国家手中，还是在一个17岁的勒索软件制造商手中，它本质上都难以控制。 Such concerns will be thrashed out as the world’s regulatory bodies grapple with generative AI . Microsoft and Google—and, by extension, their startup charges—have much deeper pockets than open-source developers to handle whatever the regulators come up with. 随着全球监管机构努力应对生成性人工智能问题，这些担忧将得到解决。微软(Microsoft)和谷歌(Google)ーー进一步说，还有它们的创业费用ーー在应对监管机构提出的任何建议方面，它们比开源开发人员拥有更为雄厚的资金。 They also have more at stake in preserving the stability of the information-technology system that has turned them into titans. For once, the desire for safety and for profits may be aligned. ■ 他们还面临着更大的利害关系，即维护信息技术系统的稳定性，正是这个系统让他们成为了巨人。这一次，对安全和利润的渴望可能是一致的。￭ Read more from Schumpeter, our columnist on global business: 阅读更多来自我们的全球商业专栏作家熊彼特的文章: America’s culture wars threaten its single market (May 18th) 美国的文化战争威胁着它的单一市场(5月18日) Writers on strike beware: Hollywood has changed for ever (May 10th) 罢工的作家们要当心: 好莱坞已经永远改变了(5月10日) America needs a jab in its corporate backside (May 3rd) 美国需要在其企业背后打一拳(5月3日) Also: If you want to write directly to Schumpeter, email him at schumpeter@economist.com . And here is an explanation of how the Schumpeter column got its name. 另外: 如果你想直接写信给熊彼特，请发电子邮件至 Schumpeter@economist.com。这里有一个熊彼特专栏如何得名的解释。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/the-tech-giants-have-an-interest-in-ai-regulation 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/business/2023/05/25/the-tech-giants-have-an-interest-in-ai-regulation 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Business 生意 Sections 部分 Science & ... 科学..。 Finance & economics 金融与经济 What happens if America defaults on its debt? 如果美国拖欠债务会发生什么？ The nightmare scenario :: An unimaginable eventuality becomes all too imaginable 噩梦般的场景: 无法想象的可能性变得无法想象 China and Russia compete for Central Asia’s favour 中国和俄罗斯争夺中亚的青睐 Xi v Putin :: The problem is that the former Soviet republics are feeling increasingly flush 习和普京: 问题是前苏联加盟共和国感觉越来越富裕 China’s state capitalists celebrate their soaring shares 中国国有资本家庆祝股价飙升 Quite a coup :: Government-owned firms have enjoyed a renaissance this year 今年，国有企业迎来了复兴 The American credit cycle is at a dangerous point 美国信贷周期正处于危险之中 Buttonwood :: Welcome to a bad time for big debts 梧桐树: 欢迎来到负债累累的坏时代。 What would humans do in a world of super-AI? 在一个超级人工智能的世界里，人类会做什么？ Love and conflict :: A thought experiment based on economic principles 爱与冲突: 基于经济学原理的思维实验 What performance-enhancing stimulants mean for economic growth 提高绩效的兴奋剂对经济增长意味着什么 Free exchange :: Could America’s Adderall shortage have harmed its productivity? 自由交流: 美国的阿得拉短缺会不会损害其生产力？ Business 生意 Sections 部分 Science & ... 科学..。

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The nightmare scenario 噩梦般的场景 What happens if America defaults on its debt? 如果美国拖欠债务会发生什么？ An unimaginable eventuality becomes all too imaginable 一个难以想象的可能性变得难以想象 May 22nd 2023 | Washington, DC 2023年5月22日 | 华盛顿特区 T HE AMERICAN CONSTITUTION vests legislative power in Congress. Over the coming days the political body may arrogate to itself a metaphysical power: transforming the utterly unthinkable into hard reality. By failing to raise America’s debt ceiling in time, Congress could drive the country into its first sovereign default in modern history. A collapse in stockmarkets, a surge in unemployment, panic throughout the global economy—all are firmly within the realm of possibility. 美国宪法赋予国会立法权。在接下来的日子里，这个政治机构可能会自诩为一种形而上学的力量: 将完全不可想象的事物转变为严酷的现实。由于未能及时提高美国的债务上限，国会可能会使美国陷入现代历史上的首次主权违约。股市崩盘、失业率飙升、全球经济陷入恐慌ーー所有这些都有可能发生。 How this would happen is straightforward . 这种情况将如何发生很简单。 America has until roughly June 1st to raise its debt limit—a politically determined ceiling on total gross federal borrowing, currently $31.4trn—or it will run out of cash to cover all its obligations, from military salaries to sending cheques to pensioners and making bond payments. 美国必须在大约6月1日之前提高债务上限，这是政治上决定的联邦总借款上限，目前为31.4万亿美元，否则美国将用尽现金来支付所有债务，从军人薪水到给养老金领取者寄支票和支付债券。 The country has faced such deadlines in the past, lulling observers into the belief that it will, once again, raise its debt limit at the last minute. But its politicians are more fractious than during past standoffs. 过去也曾面临过这样的最后期限，让观察人士相信，它将在最后一刻再次提高债务上限。但它的政客们比过去的僵局时期更加暴躁。 Kevin McCarthy, the Republican speaker of the House of Representatives, is pushing for swingeing spending cuts, as he must to keep his narrow, quarrelsome majority together. 众议院议长、共和党人凯文•麦卡锡(Kevin McCarthy)正在推动大幅削减开支，因为他必须维持自己那狭窄、争吵不休的多数党地位。 The Republican proposal—to reset some federal spending in 2024 at the level it was at in 2022—would equate to a roughly 25% cut in real terms, all but demolishing President Joe Biden’s legislative achievements in green-energy investment, and perhaps throwing the economy into a deep recession. 共和党提议在2024年将部分联邦支出重置至2022年的水平，这相当于实际削减约25% ，几乎完全摧毁了乔 · 拜登(Joe Biden)总统在绿色能源投资方面的立法成就，并可能使经济陷入严重衰退。 That, predictably, is a non-starter for Democrats, who are also resisting Republican demands to expand work requirements for welfare recipients. Negotiations have broken down several times over the past week. 可以预见的是，这对民主党来说是不可能的，他们也在抵制共和党提出的扩大福利受益者工作要求的要求。过去一周，谈判多次破裂。 Adding to the complexity is an intervention from Donald Trump, who remarked that the consequences of an American default “could be maybe nothing”—an insouciance that has emboldened the Republican fringe. 唐纳德•特朗普(Donald Trump)的干预增加了问题的复杂性，他表示，美国违约的后果“可能什么都不是”，这种漫不经心的态度让共和党边缘人士更加大胆。 The stockmarket, basically flat over the past month, reflects the common view among investors that a compromise will ultimately be reached. That could well turn out to be complacent. 股市在过去一个月基本持平，反映了投资者的普遍看法，即最终将达成妥协。这很可能会被证明是自满。 Moreover, any agreement may merely extend the debt ceiling by just another year or two, meaning that America is likely once again to find itself in the same mess. 此外，任何协议都可能只是将债务上限再延长一两年，这意味着美国很可能再次发现自己陷入同样的困境。 The Treasury, working with the Federal Reserve, has a fallback plan if Congress does not raise the debt limit. Known as “payment prioritisation”, this would stave off a default by paying interest on bonds and cutting back even more from other obligations. 如果国会不提高债务上限，财政部将与美联储(Fed)合作，制定一项后备计划。这被称为“支付优先权”，通过支付债券利息和削减更多其它债务，将避免违约。 Yet putting bondholders ahead of pensioners and soldiers would be unpalatable, and may prove unsustainable. What’s more, prioritisation would rely on the continued success of regular auctions to replace maturing Treasury bonds. 然而，将债券持有人置于养老金领取者和士兵之前，这种做法令人不快，而且可能被证明是不可持续的。更重要的是，优先顺序将依赖于定期拍卖的持续成功，以取代到期的美国国债。 There is no guarantee that investors would trust such a dysfunctional government. With each passing day, an American default would loom as an ever more serious risk. 不能保证投资者会信任这样一个运转不良的政府。随着时间一天天过去，美国违约将成为一个越来越严重的风险。 Default could come in two flavours: a short crunch or a longer crisis. Although the consequences of both would be baleful, the latter would be much worse. 违约可能有两种形式: 短期危机或长期危机。尽管两者的后果都是有害的，但后者的后果会更糟糕。 Either way, the Fed would have a crucial role to play in containing the fallout; this crucial role would, however, be one of damage-limitation. Every market and economy around the world would feel the pain, regardless of the central bank’s actions. 无论哪种方式，美联储都将在遏制冲击波方面发挥关键作用; 然而，这一关键作用将是损害限制之一。无论央行采取什么行动，世界各地的每个市场和经济体都会感受到痛苦。 America is home to the world’s biggest sovereign-debt market: with $25trn of bonds in public hands, it accounts for about one-third of the global total (see chart 1). 美国拥有世界上最大的主权债务市场: 公众持有25万亿美元的债券，约占全球总量的三分之一(见图表1)。 Treasuries are viewed as the ultimate risk-free asset—offering a guaranteed return for corporate cash managers, governments elsewhere and investors big and small—and as a baseline for pricing other financial instruments. They are the bedrock of daily cash flows. 美国国债被视为最终的无风险资产，为企业现金管理公司、其它地区的政府以及大大小小的投资者提供有保证的回报，也是为其它金融工具定价的基准。它们是每日现金流的基石。 Short-term “repo” lending in America, worth about $4trn a day and a lifeblood for global financial markets, largely runs by using Treasuries as collateral. All this infrastructure would be thrown into doubt. 美国的短期“回购”贷款，每天价值约4万亿美元，是全球金融市场的命脉，主要是以美国国债作为抵押品。所有这些基础设施都会受到质疑。 X-asperation X 射线喷射 By definition, a default would initially be a short-term disruption. An official at the Fed says that it would resemble a liquidity crisis. 按照定义，违约最初将是短期的中断。美联储的一位官员表示，这将类似于一场流动性危机。 Assume that the government defaults on bills and bonds coming due after the “x-date” when it runs out of cash (this is estimated by the Treasury to be June 1st, if not perhaps a little after that, depending on tax receipts). 假设政府在现金耗尽的“ X 日期”之后对到期的票据和债券违约(根据税收收入，财政部估计是6月1日，如果不是稍晚一点的话)。 Demand may still remain firm for debt with later maturities on the assumption that Congress would come to its senses before too long. Indeed, a preview of the divergence can already be seen. 假设国会不久就会恢复理智，那么对于较晚到期的债务，需求可能仍将保持坚挺。实际上，我们已经可以看到分歧的预兆。 Treasury bills due in June currently have annualised yields of about 5.5%; those in August are closer to 5%. This gap would probably widen precipitously in the event of a default. 6月份到期的国债年收益率约为5.5% ，而8月份的国债年收益率更接近5% 。如果发生违约，这一差距可能会急剧扩大。 The cost of insuring against a default on American government debt, as measured by credit-default swaps, has rocketed over the past few months to a record high (see chart 2). 以信用违约互换(CDS)衡量，美国政府债务违约的保险成本在过去几个月里飙升至历史新高(见图表2)。 To start with, the Fed would treat defaulted securities much as it treats normal securities, accepting them as collateral for central-bank loans and potentially even buying them outright. 首先，美联储将像对待普通证券一样对待违约证券，接受它们作为央行贷款的抵押品，甚至有可能直接购买它们。 In effect, the Fed would replace impaired debt with good debt, working on the assumption that the government would make payment on the defaulted securities, just with some delay. 实际上，美联储将以良好债务取代不良债务，假设政府将支付违约证券，只需稍微推迟一些时间。 Although Jerome Powell, chairman of the Fed, described such steps as “loathsome” in 2013, he also said that he would accept them “under certain circumstances”. 尽管美联储主席杰罗姆•鲍威尔(Jerome Powell)在2013年称这些举措“令人厌恶”，但他也表示，“在某些情况下”他会接受这些举措。 The Fed is wary of both inserting itself at the centre of a political dispute and taking actions that seem to directly backstop the federal deficit—in the end, though, its desire to prevent financial chaos would almost certainly override these concerns. 美联储不愿让自己置身于一场政治争端的中心，也不愿采取似乎直接支持联邦赤字的行动ーー不过，最终防止金融混乱的愿望几乎肯定会压倒这些担忧。 The Fed’s response would create a paradox. To the extent that its actions succeed in stabilising markets, they would reduce the need for politicians to compromise. Moreover, running a financial system based, in part, on defaulted securities would pose challenges. 美联储的回应将制造一个悖论。在某种程度上，如果其行动能够成功稳定市场，那么它们将降低政治家妥协的必要性。此外，部分基于违约证券的金融体系的运行将带来挑战。 Fedwire, the settlement system for Treasuries, is programmed to make bills disappear once they pass their maturity date. The Treasury has said that it will intervene to extend the operational maturities of defaulted bills to ensure they remain transferable. 美国国债的结算系统 Fedwire 的程序是，一旦票据过了到期日，就让它们消失。美国财政部表示，将进行干预，延长违约票据的运营期限，以确保它们仍然可以转让。 Yet it is easy to imagine this kind of jerry-rigged system eventually breaking down. At a minimum, investors would demand higher interest to compensate for the risk, leading to a tightening of credit conditions throughout global markets. 然而，人们很容易想象这种偷工减料的体系最终会崩溃。至少，投资者会要求提高利率以补偿风险，从而导致全球市场信贷环境收紧。 However this process works out, America would already be in the throes of extreme fiscal austerity. 无论这个过程如何进行，美国都已经处于极端财政紧缩的阵痛之中。 The government would be unable to borrow more money, meaning it would have to cut spending by the gap between current tax revenues and expenditures—an overnight reduction of around 25%, according to analysts at the Brookings Institution, a think-tank. 政府将无法借到更多的钱，这意味着它将不得不通过当前税收收入与支出之间的差距来削减开支——据布鲁金斯学会分析师称，这一差距将在一夜之间缩减约25% 。 Moody’s Analytics, a research outfit, estimates that in the immediate aftermath of a default, America’s economy would shrink by nearly 1% and its unemployment rate would rise from 3.4% to 5%, putting about 1.5m people out of work. 研究机构穆迪分析(Moody’s Analytics)估计，一旦发生违约，美国经济将收缩近1% ，失业率将从3.4% 上升至5% ，导致大约150万人失业。 In the short-term scenario, Congress responds by raising the debt ceiling, allowing markets to recover. A default that lasts for a few days would be a black eye for America’s reputation and probably induce a recession. 在短期情况下，国会的回应是提高债务上限，让市场得以复苏。如果违约持续几天，美国的声誉将蒙上一层黑眼圈，并可能引发经济衰退。 Yet with deft management, it would not be the stuff of nightmares. 然而，有了灵活的管理，这将不会是噩梦的东西。 A longer default would be more dangerous. Mark Zandi of Moody’s calls it a potential “ TARP moment”, referring to the autumn of 2008 when Congress initially failed to pass the Troubled Asset Relief Programme to bail out the banks, prompting global markets to crater. Continued failure to lift the debt ceiling, even after a default occurs, could have a similar impact. 延长违约期将更加危险。穆迪(Moody’s)的马克•赞迪(Mark Zandi)称之为潜在的“不良资产救助计划时刻”，他指的是2008年秋天，当时国会最初未能通过问题资产救助计划(TARP)来纾困银行，导致全球市场崩盘。即使在违约发生之后，仍然无法提高债务上限，也可能产生类似的影响。 The Council of Economic Advisers, an agency in the White House, estimates that in the first few months of a breach, the stockmarket would slump by 45%. 白宫经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)估计，在违约的头几个月，股市将暴跌45% 。 Moody’s reckons it would fall by about 20%, and that unemployment would shoot up by five percentage points, which would mean somewhere in the region of 8m Americans losing their jobs. 穆迪估计，失业率将下降20% 左右，失业率将上升5个百分点，这意味着大约800万美国人将失去工作。 The government, constrained by the debt ceiling, would be unable to respond to the downturn with fiscal stimulus, making for a deeper recession. The political dynamics are difficult to anticipate—but they would not be pleasant. 由于债务上限的限制，政府将无法通过财政刺激来应对经济低迷，从而导致更严重的经济衰退。政治动态很难预料，但它们不会令人愉快。 An avalanche of credit downgrades would add to these troubles. In 2011, during a previous debt-ceiling standoff, Standard & Poor’s, a rating agency, downgraded America to a notch below its top AAA rating. After a default, rating agencies would be under immense pressure to do likewise. This could lead to a nasty chain reaction. 信用评级大幅下调将加剧这些麻烦。2011年，在上一次债务上限僵局期间，评级机构标准普尔(Standard & Poor’s)将美国的信用评级下调至低于其最高 AAA 评级的一级。在违约之后，评级机构将面临巨大压力，要求它们采取同样的做法。这可能会导致严重的连锁反应。 Institutions backstopped by the American government, including Fannie Mae, a crucial source of mortgage finance, would also be downgraded, translating into higher mortgage rates and undercutting the all-important property sector. 得到美国政府支持的机构，包括抵押贷款融资的重要来源房利美(Fannie Mae) ，也将被降级，从而导致抵押贷款利率上升，并削弱至关重要的房地产行业。 Yields on corporate bonds would spike as investors scrambled for cash. Banks would pull back their lending. Panic would spread. 随着投资者争抢现金，公司债券收益率将飙升。银行将收回放贷。恐慌将蔓延。 There would be bizarre, unpredictable twists. Normally, the currencies of defaulting countries suffer. In the case of an American breach, investors might flock at first to the dollar, viewing it as a haven in crisis, as is normally the case. 会有奇怪的，不可预测的曲折。通常情况下，违约国家的货币会受到影响。在美国违约的情况下，投资者可能会首先涌向美元，将其视为危机中的避风港，这种情况通常都会发生。 Within America, people might turn to deposits at too-big-to-fail banks, believing the Fed would stand behind them whatever happened. But any signs of resilience would carry a huge caveat: America would have violated the trust that the world has long placed in it. 在美国国内，人们可能会转向“大到不能倒”的银行存款，认为无论发生什么，美联储都会支持他们。但是，任何复苏的迹象都会带来一个巨大的警告: 美国将违背世界长期以来对它的信任。 Questions about alternatives to the dollar and to the American financial system would gain urgency. Faith, once destroyed, cannot easily be restored. ■ 有关替代美元和美国金融体系的问题将变得更加紧迫。信仰一旦被摧毁，就无法轻易恢复。￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in economics, finance and markets, sign up to Money Talks , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 如果你想了解更多关于经济、金融和市场方面的重大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯 Money Talks。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/22/what-happens-if-america-defaults-on-its-debt 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/22/what-happens-if-america-defaults-on-its-debt 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Xi v Putin 习 VS 普京 China and Russia compete for Central Asia’s favour 中国和俄罗斯争夺中亚的青睐 The problem is that the former Soviet republics are feeling increasingly flush 问题在于，前苏联加盟共和国感觉越来越富裕 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 C ENTRAL ASIA’S top brass is on tour. On May 9th presidents of the region’s former Soviet republics were in Moscow, having been roped in as spectators for Vladimir Putin’s annual military parade. Ten days later, as G 7 leaders gathered in Japan, it was Xi Jinping’s turn to play host, in Xi’an. At the first in-person meeting of a new group that China has dubbed the C + C 5, he wooed Central’s Asia’s five leaders with a bonanza of investments, trade deals and knowledge transfers, to the tune of $3.8bn. 中亚高层正在巡回演出。5月9日，该地区前苏联加盟共和国的总统在莫斯科，作为弗拉基米尔 · 普京一年一度的阅兵式的观众。10天后，七国集团(G7)领导人齐聚日本，轮到习近平在西安主持会议。在一个被中国称为“ C + C 5”的新集团的首次面对面会议上，他通过投资、贸易协议和知识转移等丰富多彩的手段，争取到了中亚五国领导人的支持，金额高达38亿美元。 Central Asia is home to untapped natural gas and oil reserves, supplies of copper and uranium, and 10,300km of land borders with China and Russia. Outreach to the region has occupied Beijing and Moscow since the fall of the Soviet Union. 中亚拥有尚未开发的天然气和石油储量、铜和铀的供应，以及与中国和俄罗斯长达1.03万公里的陆地边界。自苏联解体以来，对该地区的外联活动一直占据着北京和莫斯科。 But owing to uncertainty in Afghanistan and war in Ukraine, Chinese officials have taken a particular interest of late. 但由于阿富汗的不确定性和乌克兰的战争，中国官员最近对此特别感兴趣。 Security was top of the agenda in Xi’an, upsetting a long-term compromise in which the region’s armed forces move in lockstep with Moscow while Beijing pulls the region’s pursestrings by bankrolling colossal projects. 安全问题是西安会议的首要议题，这打破了一项长期妥协: 该地区的武装力量与莫斯科步调一致，而北京方面通过资助大型项目来控制该地区的资金。 The prizes offered by Mr Xi add to a push already under way to strengthen China’s economic ties with Central Asia. Beijing is involved in more than 90 industrial projects across the region. Turkmen gas alone accounts for more than 70% of the country’s annual gas imports. 习提供的这些奖项进一步推动了中国加强与中亚经济联系的努力。中国政府参与了该地区90多个工业项目。仅土库曼斯坦的天然气就占该国年度天然气进口量的70% 以上。 In 2022 China was Central Asia’s largest trading partner, as the value of imports and exports between the two parties rose to $70bn—up more than 40% from the year before, according to official Chinese figures. 中国官方数据显示，2022年，中国是中亚最大的贸易伙伴，双方的进出口额增至700亿美元，比前一年增长逾40% 。 By contrast, trade between Russia and Central Asia amounted to less than $40bn. 相比之下，俄罗斯与中亚之间的贸易额不到400亿美元。 Mr Putin has stepped up his overtures, partly to counter Mr Xi. Russia has promised a slew of infrastructure investments. Competition is particularly fierce to build transport for the region’s natural resources, many of which are trapped underground. 普京加大了示好的力度，部分原因是为了对抗习。俄罗斯已承诺进行大量基础设施投资。在为该地区的自然资源建设交通运输方面，竞争尤其激烈，其中许多资源被困在地下。 In Xi’an Mr Xi offered to construct a pipeline, the fourth of its kind, to ferry gas eastward from Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. 在西安，习主席提出建设一条管道，从哈萨克斯坦、土库曼斯坦和乌兹别克斯坦向东输送天然气，这是此类管道中的第四条。 Russia wants as much fuel as possible flowing through its borders in the Caspian and Central pipeline systems, which it has the power to turn on and off. In the words of an academic in Moscow, “there is a silent stand-off.” 俄罗斯希望尽可能多的燃料通过里海和中央管道系统的边界流入俄罗斯，俄罗斯有能力开启和关闭这些管道系统。用莫斯科一位学者的话来说，“这是一场无声的对峙。” Mr Putin’s diplomacy also has other motivations. Necessity has drawn Russia closer to its southern neighbours. War in Ukraine has left Mr Putin desperate to hold on to remaining allies, even though politicians in Central Asia have avoided openly supporting his invasion. 普京先生的外交还有其他动机。必要性使俄罗斯更加接近其南部邻国。乌克兰战争使得普京先生不顾一切地想要留住他的盟友，尽管中亚的政治家们一直避免公开支持他的入侵。 Moscow is newly reliant on Central Asia to circumvent sanctions. Central bankers in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan help settle payments, using gold and roubles, for transactions that before the war would have been made using SWIFT , a Western system. Logistics bosses and customs officials receive Russian exports before passing them on to Europe. Such intermediated trade counted for 4-6% of Kyrgyzstan’s GDP last year. 莫斯科最近依赖中亚来规避制裁。哈萨克斯坦和乌兹别克斯坦的中央银行家帮助用黄金和卢布结算战前本应使用西方系统 SWIFT 进行的交易。物流主管和海关官员接收俄罗斯出口商品，然后再转运到欧洲。这种中间贸易占去年吉尔吉斯斯坦国内生产总值的4-6% 。 The result is that Central Asia’s economies are booming. Currencies in Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have risen against the dollar since the war began, bucking an emerging-market trend. 其结果是，中亚地区的经济正在蓬勃发展。自战争开始以来，哈萨克斯坦、塔吉克斯坦和乌兹别克斯坦的货币兑美元汇率一直在上升，这与新兴市场的趋势背道而驰。 The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a multilateral outfit, predicts that industries thriving on transporting Russian exports will contribute to GDP growth of 5.2% in the region this year, comfortably outstripping expectations. Capital, firms and people fleeing Russia, many of whom are highly educated, may well produce an even healthier 2024. 欧洲复兴开发银行是一家多边机构，它预测，依靠运输俄罗斯出口产品而蓬勃发展的工业今年将为该地区贡献5.2% 的 GDP 增长，远远超出预期。逃离俄罗斯的资本、企业和人员(其中许多人受过高等教育)很可能创造出一个更加健康的2024年。 Frenetic business has sent pay soaring, too. In November, annual real wage growth reached 10% in Uzbekistan and 7% in Kazakhstan, meaning the region’s workers have seen more of a lift than those in any G 7 country. Newly flush households will spend more on food and energy during Central Asia’s freezing winters. Strong domestic demand has left the region’s governments struggling to keep up. 狂热的生意也导致了工资的飙升。去年11月，乌兹别克斯坦和哈萨克斯坦的实际工资年增长率分别达到10% 和7% ，这意味着该地区的工人比七国集团中任何一个国家的工人都有更大的提升。在中亚寒冷的冬季，新富家庭将在食品和能源上花费更多。强劲的国内需求让该地区各国政府难以跟上。 Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan both paused gas exports in January, with a promise to bring them to a complete end by 2025. Whoever wins the charm offensive to build Central Asia’s new pipelines may find there is no fuel available to fill them. ■ 哈萨克斯坦和乌兹别克斯坦均在今年1月暂停天然气出口，并承诺在2025年前完全停止出口。无论谁在建设中亚新管道的魅力攻势中获胜，都可能发现没有可用的燃料来填充这些管道。￭ For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in economics, finance and markets, sign up to Money Talks , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 如果你想了解更多关于经济、金融和市场方面的重大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯 Money Talks。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/25/china-and-russia-compete-for-central-asias-favour 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/25/china-and-russia-compete-for-central-asias-favour 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Quite a coup 真是惊天动地 China’s state capitalists celebrate their soaring shares 中国国有资本家庆祝股价飙升 Government-owned firms have enjoyed a renaissance this year 国有企业今年迎来了复兴 May 25th 2023 | Shanghai 2023年5月25日 | 上海 R EMEMBER THE name : China Science Publishing & Media ( CSPM ) might be the hottest state-owned textbook stock, ever. Shares in the company, which publishes titles such as “Gaseous Detonation Physics and its Universal Framework Theory”, are up 230% since the start of the year. It is not the content, riveting though it is, that has lifted CSPM ’s market capitalisation to nearly 30bn yuan ($4.3bn). Across the board, China’s state-owned companies have enjoyed a renaissance—at the request of regulators. Stop focusing on profits, authorities have insisted. 记住这个名字: 中国科学出版传媒(CSPM)可能是有史以来最热门的国有教科书股票。自今年年初以来，该公司股价上涨了230% 。该公司出版了《气体爆炸物理学及其宇宙框架理论》等书籍。尽管内容引人入胜，但并不是它将 CSPM 的市值提升至近300亿元人民币(合43亿美元)。在监管机构的要求下，中国国有企业总体上实现了复兴。当局坚称，不要只关注利润。 Instead, think about firms’ social contributions and their broader impact on the economy. All told, the “reconsideration” of China’s clunkiest firms has been worth 3trn yuan in the first five months of the year. 相反，考虑一下企业的社会贡献及其对经济的广泛影响。总而言之，今年前五个月对中国最笨拙的公司的“重新考虑”价值3万亿元。 The success of the concept—called the “valuation system with Chinese characteristics”—is quite the coup for the country’s state capitalists. It suggests an ability to guide investment flows. 这个被称为“中国特色价值体系”的概念获得成功，对中国的国有资本家来说是一个相当大的成功。它表明了引导投资流动的能力。 First mentioned in November by Yi Huiman, head of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the system’s principles continue to evolve. 去年11月，中国证监会(csrc)主席易会满首次提到，该体系的原则仍在不断演变。 At their core is the idea that standard valuation methods are poor at assessing state-owned companies because such firms adhere to central-government policies which seek to improve overall economic prosperity, not simply a firm’s bottom line. 其核心观点是，标准估值方法在评估国有企业方面很差，因为这些企业遵循的是中央政府寻求改善整体经济繁荣的政策，而不仅仅是企业的底线。 China’s state-owned enterprises ( SOE s) have a reputation for poor performance and stingy dividends. Their market valuations have reflected this. Part of the problem, say proponents of the new system, is that companies have communicated poorly with investors. Some have even asked analysts not to cover them. 中国国有企业(SOE)素有业绩不佳和股息吝啬的名声。它们的市场估值反映了这一点。新体系的支持者表示，部分问题在于，企业与投资者沟通不畅。一些人甚至要求分析师不要报道这些问题。 Now the firms should help investors understand their “intrinsic values”, Mr Yi has said. No method for doing this has been divulged, but investors speculate that these values include local employment and the hesitancy at many SOE s to lay off unproductive staff. 易先生说，现在这些公司应该帮助投资者理解他们的“内在价值”。目前尚未披露具体方法，但投资者猜测，这些价值观包括当地就业，以及许多国有企业不愿裁减效率低下的员工。 This sounds strikingly similar to what investors grudgingly call “national service”, or sacrificing profits to boost economic growth. 这听起来与投资者不情愿地称之为“国民服务”的做法惊人地相似，即牺牲利润来促进经济增长。 China’s largest banks are often asked to do this by lowering interest rates on loans to risky borrowers—defying all commercial logic—in the hopes of spurring growth. 中国大型银行经常被要求降低面向高风险借款人的贷款利率，以期刺激经济增长。这种做法违背了所有商业逻辑。 Kweichow Moutai, a state-owned liquor-maker and one of China’s most valuable listed firms, frequently spends on public works and has even started bailing out local governments in its province. By classic valuation models, this is all detrimental to shareholder value. 贵州茅台是一家国有白酒生产商，也是中国市值最高的上市公司之一。该公司经常投资于公共工程，甚至已经开始为该省的地方政府纾困。根据传统的估值模型，这些都不利于股东价值。 The biggest beneficiary of the new system may be pensioners. China faces a gaping shortfall in its ability to support the elderly. Poor demographics and an early retirement age are exacerbating the problem. 新制度的最大受益者可能是退休人员。中国养老能力严重不足。糟糕的人口结构和提前退休年龄加剧了这一问题。 Officials are transferring trillions of yuan in state-owned capital to the national pension fund as part of a reform process. A boost in the valuation of the firms could eventually help the state meet its pension obligations. The new valuation system, says Meng Lei of UBS , a bank, is an attempt to help investors understand the broader implications of this transfer of state-owned capital to pensioners. 作为改革进程的一部分，官员们正在将数万亿元的国有资本转移到国家养老基金。这些公司估值的提高最终可能有助于国家履行其养老金义务。瑞银(UBS)的孟磊表示，新的估值体系旨在帮助投资者理解国有资本向养老金领取者转移的更广泛影响。 Is there a more traditional case for investment in companies such as CSPM ? After a surge of excitement this year, state firms’ share prices are falling again. A new index tracking them is down by 11% since its peak on May 8th. The 291 state-owned shares that are included in the China coverage of MSCI , an index operator, trade at around six times forward earnings, or close to all-time lows, according to Goldman Sachs, a bank. This is about half the ratio for non-state companies. 对于投资于 CSPM 这样的公司，是否存在更为传统的情况？在经历了今年的高涨之后，国有企业的股价再次下跌。一个跟踪他们的新指数比5月8日的峰值下降了11% 。根据高盛(Goldman Sachs)的数据，纳入 MSCI 明晟中国指数覆盖范围的291只国有股的预期市盈率约为6倍，接近历史低点。这一比例约为非国有企业的一半。 Even before the recent fall, SOE s were trading at a hefty discount. Officials now hope to match their fine words with actions. The regulator that oversees state assets recently switched its main gauge for evaluating company performance from net profits to return on equity. Analysts at CICC , a Chinese investment bank, reckon this might help lift capital returns and operating results. In which case, the interests of state capitalists and private investors would be better aligned than at present. ■ 甚至在最近的下跌之前，国有企业的股价就已大幅下跌。官员们现在希望言行一致。负责监管国有资产的监管机构最近将评估公司业绩的主要指标从净利润转向了股本回报率。中国投资银行中金公司(CICC)的分析师认为，这可能有助于提高资本回报率和经营业绩。在这种情况下，国家资本家和私人投资者的利益将比目前更加一致。￭ For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in economics, finance and markets, sign up to Money Talks , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 如果你想了解更多关于经济、金融和市场方面的重大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯 Money Talks。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/25/chinas-state-capitalists-celebrate-their-soaring-shares 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/25/chinas-state-capitalists-celebrate-their-soaring-shares 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Buttonwood 梧桐树 The American credit cycle is at a dangerous point 美国信贷周期正处于危险之中 Welcome to a bad time for big debts 欢迎来到负债累累的时代 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 T HE CELEBRATED tome “Capital in the Twenty-First Century”, by Thomas Piketty, a French economist, runs to 204,000 words—longer even than Homer’s “Odyssey”. But the book’s central argument can be distilled to a single, three-character expression: r > g. As long as “r”, the real rate of return to capital, exceeds “g”, the real rate of economic growth—as Mr Piketty calculated it did over the course of the 20th century—then inequality will supposedly widen. 法国经济学家托马斯 · 皮凯蒂的著作《二十一世纪资本论》长达20.4万字，比荷马的《奥德赛》还长。但是，这本书的核心论点可以浓缩为一个单一的三个字符的表达式: r > g。只要“ r”(实际资本回报率)超过“ g”(实际经济增长率)(正如皮凯蒂先生在20世纪所计算的那样) ，那么不平等就会扩大。 The simplicity of the message won Mr Piketty widespread acclaim. It also spawned a resurgence in the popularity of economic expressions. An influential one, i > g, is a variation on the Piketty rule. 信息的简单性赢得了皮凯蒂先生的广泛赞誉。它还催生了经济表达方式的复兴。一个有影响力的，i > g，是 Piketty 规则的一个变体。 It applies when nominal interest rates (or risk-free returns) exceed nominal growth. The troubling conclusion from this expression applies to debt. 当名义利率(或无风险收益率)超过名义增长率时，它就适用。从这个表达式得出的令人不安的结论适用于债务。 In an i > g world, growth in the revenues, wages or tax receipts that a debtor earns will be slower than the interest accumulating on their borrowing, meaning debt levels have the potential to explode. 在一个 i > g 的世界里，债务人收入、工资或税收收入的增长速度将低于其借款利息的累积速度，这意味着债务水平有爆炸性增长的潜力。 An i > g world is unfamiliar to America and most of the West. Since the end of 2009 nominal growth has been higher than nominal rates (aside from the first half of 2020, when the covid-19 pandemic crashed the economy). Now America is about to cross the threshold. 对于美国和大多数西方国家来说，这是一个陌生的世界。自2009年底以来，名义增长率一直高于名义增长率(2020年上半年除外，当时2019冠状病毒疾病疫情导致经济崩溃)。现在美国即将跨过这道门槛。 In the first quarter of 2023, despite annualised real economic growth of only 1.1%, troublesomely high inflation meant that nominal GDP rose at an annualised rate of 5.1%, roughly in line with today’s federal funds rate. A panel of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, a data firm, anticipate that in the second quarter of the year growth will slip to just 0.4% and inflation to 3.3%. 2023年第一季度，尽管实际经济年增长率仅为1.1% ，但令人头疼的高通胀率意味着名义 GDP 年增长率为5.1% ，与今天的联邦基金利率大致相当。接受彭博社(Bloomberg)调查的一组经济学家预计，今年第二季度的经济增长率将下滑至0.4% ，通胀率将降至3.3% 。 Nominal growth is forecast to be just 3.7%—well below nominal rates of around 5.2%. 预计名义增长率仅为3.7% ，远低于5.2% 左右的名义增长率。 “This is when the rubber really meets the road for the economic cycle,” notes Carl Riccadonna of BNP Paribas, a bank. “This is the point at which, if you’re a business, your revenues are now growing more slowly than your cost of financing.” Wage growth will lag debt growth. Government debts will grow faster than tax receipts. A single quarter of this might be bearable. 法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)的卡尔•里卡多纳(Carl Riccadonna)指出: “这是经济周期真正到来的时候。”。“如果你是一家企业，现在就是这个时候，你的收入增长慢于融资成本。”工资增长将滞后于债务增长。政府债务的增长速度将超过税收收入的增长速度。这其中的四分之一也许是可以忍受的。 Unfortunately, economists expect the situation to last a year or more. 不幸的是，经济学家预计这种情况将持续一年或更长时间。 The precise impact depends on the extent to which debt reprices as interest rates rise. The vast majority of American homeowners have 30-year fixed-rate mortgages. 确切的影响取决于随着利率上升，债务重新定价的程度。绝大多数美国房主都有30年期的固定利率抵押贷款。 This generous financing will protect them against a pincer-like combo of slowing wage growth and rising interest expenses. Nevertheless, consumers carrying other kinds of debt—including revolving credit-card balances and private student loans—will feel the pinch. 这种慷慨的融资将保护他们免受工资增长放缓和利息支出上升的夹击。然而，背负着其他种类债务(包括信用卡周转余额和私人助学贷款)的消费者将感到手头拮据。 Many companies hold a mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt, meaning they will also be somewhat insulated. But the maturities of their debts tend to be much shorter than those of mortgages. A large portion of corporate fixed-rate debt is due to roll over in 2024. Companies that are preparing to refinance are getting nervous. 许多公司持有固定利率债务和浮动利率债务的组合，这意味着它们也将在一定程度上得到隔离。但它们的债务期限往往比抵押贷款期限短得多。很大一部分企业固定利率债务将于2024年展期。准备进行再融资的公司正变得紧张起来。 Raphael Bejarano of Jefferies, an investment bank, points out that many corporate treasurers have been spooked by just how difficult it has been to issue debt over the past year. 投资银行杰富瑞(Jefferies)的拉斐尔•贝贾拉诺(Raphael Bejarano)指出，过去一年发行债券的难度之大，令许多企业财务主管感到恐慌。 “Many of them are looking at their big maturities in 2024 and trying to roll some of that debt a little earlier, even at higher rates,” he says. “他们中的许多人正在考虑2024年的大期限，并试图提前一点滚动部分债务，即便利率更高,”他表示。 What they really fear is being unable to roll their debt over at all. 他们真正担心的是根本无法展期债务。 The most-exposed companies include many that have been recently snapped up by private-equity barons. Private-credit loans taken on by their firms’ portfolio companies tend to have floating rates. 风险敞口最大的公司包括许多最近被私募股权巨头收购的公司。由公司投资组合公司承担的私人信贷贷款往往有浮动利率。 During the last major credit cycle, in 2008, many private-equity firms were able to hang on to their overleveraged acquisitions by negotiating with lenders, which were mostly banks. 在2008年的上一个主要信贷周期中，许多私募股权公司通过与贷款机构(主要是银行)谈判，得以保住他们过度杠杆化的收购。 This time around they will be going toe-to-toe with private-credit lenders, many of which also employ hefty private-equity teams and will be more than happy to take on overleveraged firms. In a sign of what may be to come, on May 16th KKR , a giant private-assets firm, allowed Envision Healthcare, a portfolio company in which it invested $3.5bn at a $10bn valuation in 2018, to fall into bankruptcy and be seized by its lenders. 这一次，他们将与私人信贷贷款机构展开直接对抗，其中许多机构还雇佣了大量私人股本团队，并且非常乐意与负债过高的公司展开较量。5月16日，KKR，一家大型私人资产公司，允许 Envision Healthcare，一家投资组合公司，在2018年以100亿美元的估值投资了35亿美元，陷入破产并被债权人接管。 When surveying this scene, it is reassuring to note that interest rates have been high for a while, the American economy has fared pretty well and even bank failures seem to have represented a flesh wound rather than a fatal one. 在调查这一现象时，我们可以放心地注意到，利率已经高企了一段时间，美国经济表现相当不错，甚至银行倒闭似乎只是皮肉伤，而不是致命伤。 But all of this has happened in a different context. It is far easier to swallow a high cost of capital when it is matched by high returns on said capital. And that will not be the case for much longer. ■ 但这一切都发生在不同的背景下。当资本成本与资本的高回报率相匹配时，就更容易接受高成本的资本。这种情况不会持续太久。￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com Read more from Buttonwood, our columnist on financial markets: 阅读更多来自我们的金融市场专栏作家 Buttonwood 的文章: How to invest in artificial intelligence (May 17th) 如何投资人工智能(5月17日) Investors brace for a painful crash into America’s debt ceiling (May 10th) 投资者准备好迎接美国债务上限的痛苦崩溃(5月10日) What the First Republic deal means for America’s banks (May 3rd) 第一共和国协议对美国银行意味着什么(5月3日) Also: How the Buttonwood column got its name 还有: Buttonwood 栏目是如何得名的 Correction (May 25th 2023) : This article originally misstated the title of Mr Piketty’s book and America’s economic growth. Sorry. 更正(2023年5月25日) : 本文最初错误地标题皮凯蒂先生的书和美国的经济增长。对不起。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/24/the-american-credit-cycle-is-at-a-dangerous-point 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/24/the-american-credit-cycle-is-at-a-dangerous-point 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Love and conflict 爱与冲突 What would humans do in a world of super-AI? 在一个超级人工智能的世界里，人类会做什么？ A thought experiment based on economic principles 基于经济学原理的思维实验 May 23rd 2023 | 2023年5月23日 I N “WALL-E” , a film released in 2008, humans live in what could be described as a world of fully automated luxury communism. Artificially intelligent robots, which take wonderfully diverse forms, are responsible for all productive labour. 在2008年上映的电影《机器人总动员》中，人类生活在一个可以被描述为完全自动化的奢侈共产主义世界。人工智能机器人形态多样，负责所有的生产劳动。 People get fat, hover in armchairs and watch television. The “Culture” series by Iain M. Banks , a Scottish novelist, goes further, considering a world in which AI has grown sufficiently powerful as to be superintelligent—operating far beyond anything now foreseeable. The books are favourites of Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, the bosses of Amazon and Tesla, respectively. In the world spun by Banks, scarcity is a thing of the past and AI “minds” direct most production. Humans turn to art, explore the cultures of the vast universe and indulge in straightforwardly hedonistic pleasures. 人们变胖，坐在扶手椅上，看电视。苏格兰小说家伊恩 · 班克斯(Iain M. Banks)的《文化》(Culture)系列更进一步，认为在这个世界上，人工智能已经变得足够强大，可以成为超级智能，其运行速度远远超出了目前可预见的范围。这两本书分别是亚马逊(Amazon)和特斯拉(Tesla)的老板杰夫•贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)和埃隆•马斯克(Elon Musk)的最爱。在银行主导的世界里，稀缺已经成为过去，人工智能“思想”指导着大多数生产。人类求助于艺术，探索浩瀚宇宙的文化，沉溺于直截了当的享乐之中。 Such stories may seem far-fetched. But rapid progress in generative AI —the sort that underpins Open AI ’s popular chatbot, Chat GPT —has caused many to take them more seriously. On May 22nd Open AI ’s founders published a blog post saying that “it’s conceivable that within the next ten years, AI systems will exceed expert skill level in most domains, and carry out as much productive activity as one of today’s largest corporations.” Last summer forecasters on Metaculus, an online prediction platform that is a favourite of many techies, thought it would take until the early 2040s to produce an AI capable of tricking humans into thinking that it was human after a two-hour chat, had good enough robotic capabilities to assemble a model car and could pass various other challenging cognitive tests. After a year of astonishing AI breakthroughs, Metaculus forecasters now think that this will happen by the early 2030s. There is no shortage of money for research, either. Five new generative- AI unicorns (startups valued at $1bn or more) have already been minted this year. 这样的故事似乎有些牵强。但是，生成性人工智能的快速进步(OpenAI 广受欢迎的聊天机器人 ChatGPT 的基础就是这种进步)已经让许多人更加认真地对待它们。5月22日，OpenAI 的创始人发表了一篇博客文章，称“可以想象，在未来十年内，人工智能系统将超越大多数领域的专家技能水平，进行与当今最大的公司之一一样多的生产活动。”去年夏天，许多技术人士最喜欢的在线预测平台 Metaculus 的预测者们认为，要到本世纪40年代初，才能研发出一种人工智能，能够在两小时的聊天之后让人类误以为自己是人类，拥有足够好的机器人能力来组装一辆模型汽车，并能通过其它各种具有挑战性的认知测试。在人工智能取得了一年的惊人突破之后，Metaculus 的预测者们现在认为，这种情况将在本世纪30年代初出现。用于研究的资金也不短缺。今年已经有5家新的生成型人工智能独角兽公司(估值在10亿美元以上的初创公司)诞生。 The road to a general AI —one better than the very best of humanity at everything—could take longer than expected . Nevertheless, the rising possibility of ultra-powerful AI raises the question of what would be left for humans when it arrives. Would they become couch potatoes as in “Wall-E”? Here is a thought experiment, guided by the principles of economics, to provide something of an answer. 通往普通人工智能的道路可能比预期的更漫长。普通人工智能比人类最优秀的人类在任何方面都做得更好。尽管如此，超级强大的人工智能的可能性日益增加，这提出了一个问题: 当它到来时，人类还剩下什么。他们会像《机器人瓦力》里那样变成电视迷吗？在经济学原理的指导下，这里有一个思想实验，可以提供一些答案。 AI is your oyster 人工智能就是你的牡蛎 Inevitably, such a thought experiment involves some fairly heroic assumptions. For a start, we suppose that AI will be benevolent, controllable and distinguishable from humans. We also suppose that human culture will not be radically altered by technological progress to the point that people begin to love or even worship AI s. Instead, we imagine AI as a tool: a virtual, super-smart, dirt-cheap bot. We assume that constraints on the widespread use of AI , such as energy limits, will be resolved. None of this is guaranteed, but it helps make an exercise like this possible. 不可避免地，这样一个思想实验涉及到一些相当英勇的假设。首先，我们假设人工智能将是仁慈的、可控的，并且可以与人类区分开来。我们还认为，技术进步不会从根本上改变人类文化，以至于人们开始喜欢甚至崇拜人工智能。相反，我们把人工智能想象成一个工具: 一个虚拟的、超级聪明的、非常便宜的机器人。我们假设，对人工智能广泛应用的限制，如能源限制，将得到解决。这些都不能保证，但它有助于使这样的练习成为可能。 In 2019 Philippe Aghion, Ben Jones and Chad Jones, three economists, modelled the impact of AI . They found that explosive economic growth was plausible if AI could be used to automate all production, including the process of research itself—and thus self-improve. A nearly unlimited number of AI s could work together on any given problem, opening up vast scientific possibilities. Yet their modelling carried an important caveat. If AI automated most but not all production, or most but not all of the research process, growth would not take off. As the economists put it: “Economic growth may be constrained not by what we do well but rather by what is essential and yet hard to improve.” 2019年，三位经济学家菲利普•阿格翁(Philippe Aghon)、本•琼斯(Ben Jones)和查德•琼斯(Chad Jones)对人工智能的影响进行了建模。他们发现，如果人工智能可以用来实现所有生产自动化，包括研究过程本身，从而实现自我完善，那么经济爆炸式增长是可能的。几乎无限数量的人工智能可以在任何给定的问题上进行合作，开辟了巨大的科学可能性。然而，他们的模型带有一个重要的警告。如果人工智能实现了大部分(但不是全部)生产的自动化，或者实现了大部分(但不是全部)研究过程的自动化，增长就不会起飞。正如经济学家所言: “经济增长可能受到制约的不是我们做得好的方面，而是必不可少但又难以改善的方面。” An idea put forward by William Baumol, a late economist, offers an explanation for this. In a paper published in 1965, he and William Bowen, a colleague, examined wages in the performing arts. 已故经济学家威廉•鲍莫尔(William Baumol)提出的一个观点对此做出了解释。在1965年发表的一篇论文中，他和同事威廉•鲍恩(William Bowen)研究了表演艺术领域的工资水平。 They noted that the “output per man-hour of the violinist playing a Schubert quartet in a standard concert hall is relatively fixed”. Even as technological progress made other industries more productive, the performing arts remained unaffected. 他们指出，“在标准音乐厅演奏舒伯特四重奏的小提琴手每工时的产量是相对固定的”。即使技术进步使其他产业更具生产力，表演艺术仍未受到影响。 Because humans were still willing to spend on the arts even as prices rose—demand was “inelastic”—the arts took up more of GDP and therefore weighed on overall growth. 由于人类仍然愿意在艺术品价格上涨的情况下进行消费(需求是“无弹性的”) ，艺术品在 GDP 中所占比重更大，因此对整体增长构成了压力。 Baumol’s example points to a broader principle. If the domains that AI is able to fully automate are only imperfect substitutes for those which it cannot, and the demand for non-automatable industries is hard to budge, then the unproductive sectors will grow as a share of GDP , reducing overall growth. Messrs Aghion, Jones and Jones note that this is in fact what has happened across much of the past century. Technology has automated swathes of agriculture and manufacturing, driving down the relative price of their outputs. 鲍莫尔的例子指出了一个更广泛的原则。如果人工智能能够完全自动化的领域只是那些它不能完全自动化的领域的不完美替代品，而且对非自动化行业的需求难以调整，那么非生产性行业占 GDP 的比重将会增长，从而降低整体增长。阿基翁、琼斯和琼斯先生指出，这实际上是过去一个世纪大部分时间里发生的情况。技术使大量农业和制造业实现了自动化，降低了它们产出的相对价格。 As a result, people have spent a greater share of their incomes on industries such as education, health care and recreation, which have not seen the same productivity gains. 其结果是，人们在教育、医疗保健和娱乐等行业上的支出占收入的比重更大，而这些行业的生产率却没有得到同样的提高。 Will Baumol’s story matter in a world in which AI is more capable than the most talented humans? If the AI is not embodied—maybe because progress in robotics lags that in computing—then the answer is surely yes. Much of the economy, including construction and manufacturing, is decidedly physical. 在一个人工智能比最有天赋的人类更有能力的世界里，鲍莫尔的故事还重要吗？如果人工智能不具体化(也许是因为机器人技术的进步落后于计算机技术) ，那么答案肯定是肯定的。经济的很大一部分，包括建筑业和制造业，显然是实体经济。 There are countless forms of employment, including many in health care, that require a combination of braininess and an ability to traverse the physical world. These jobs would only increase in importance in a scenario where AI began to dominate cognitive labour. Humans would work in the physical world, perhaps under the guidance of AI “chief executives” or “professors”. 有无数种就业形式，包括许多在医疗保健领域的就业形式，需要智力和穿越物质世界的能力相结合。在人工智能开始主导认知劳动的情况下，这些工作的重要性只会增加。人类将在物质世界中工作，或许是在人工智能“首席执行官”或“教授”的指导下。 But what if ultra-powerful AI develops super-humanoid robots, too? Material needs would almost certainly be met by machine hands. One might then expect humanity to give up on toil, much like in “Wall-E”. 但是如果超级强大的人工智能也开发出超级人形机器人呢？几乎可以肯定，机械手能够满足物质需求。人们可能会期望人类放弃辛劳，就像《机器人瓦力》里那样。 Indeed, in 1930 John Maynard Keynes, another economist, penned an essay entitled “Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren”, in which he speculated that a century in the future people would work for less than 15 hours a week. 实际上，1930年，另一位经济学家约翰·梅纳德·凯恩斯写了一篇题为《我们子孙后代的经济可能性》的文章，他在文中推测，未来一个世纪，人们每周的工作时间将不到15小时。 The growth generated by technology would solve the “economic problem”, he predicted, and allow people to turn their attention to activities that are intrinsically pleasurable. 他预测，技术带来的增长将解决“经济问题”，并让人们将注意力转向本质上令人愉悦的活动。 Admittedly, Keynes’s 15-hour work week has not arrived—but higher levels of wealth, which may increase the appeal of leisure, have cut working hours much as he expected. 诚然，凯恩斯的每周15小时工作制尚未实现，但财富水平的提高(这可能会增加休闲的吸引力)大大减少了工作时间，这与他的预期相去甚远。 The average number of hours worked a week in the rich world has fallen from around 60 in the late 20th century to under 40 today. 在富裕国家，每周平均工作时间已从20世纪末的60小时左右，下降到今天的40小时以下。 There are, nevertheless, some wants that perhaps only humans can satisfy even in a world of supercharged, embodied AI. It is also worth noting that what is intrinsically pleasurable may include work. Consider three areas where humans may still have a role: work that is blurred with play, play itself and work where humans retain some kind of an advantage. 尽管如此，仍然有一些需求，也许只有人类才能满足，即使是在一个机械增压，具体化的人工智能的世界。同样值得注意的是，本质上令人愉悦的事情可能包括工作。考虑三个人类仍然可以发挥作用的领域: 工作与游戏相混淆，游戏本身，以及人类保持某种优势的工作。 Fun and games 有趣的游戏 Start with the blurring boundary between work and play. Although working hours have fallen over the past century, most of the drop was before the 1980s. Increasingly, rich people labour for longer than poorer people. Keynes’s essay hints at an explanation for this odd development. 从工作和娱乐之间模糊的界限开始。尽管工作时间在过去一个世纪里有所下降，但大部分下降发生在上世纪80年代之前。富人比穷人劳动的时间越来越长。凯恩斯的文章暗示了对这种奇怪发展的解释。 He divided human desires in two: “Those needs which are absolute in the sense that we feel them whatever the situation of our fellow human beings may be, and those which are relative in the sense that we feel them only if their satisfaction lifts us above, makes us feel superior to, our fellows.” 他把人类的欲望一分为二: “无论我们的人类同胞处于什么情况下，我们都能感受到那些绝对的需求，而那些相对的需求，只有在他们的满足使我们凌驾于我们之上时，我们才能感受到它们，使我们觉得自己比我们的同胞更优越。” Keynes perhaps underestimated the size of this second class of wants. A cynic might suggest that entire academic disciplines fall into it: existing with no apparent value to the world, with academics nevertheless competing furiously for status based on their braininess. 凯恩斯可能低估了这第二类需求的规模。愤世嫉俗者可能会认为，整个学术学科都陷入了这种状态: 对世界没有明显价值的存在，而学者们却依靠自己的聪明才智激烈地争夺地位。 Economists would say that, for many, work has become a “consumption good”, offering far more utility than the income it generates. 经济学家会说，对许多人来说，工作已经成为一种“消费品”，提供的效用远远超过其产生的收入。 Games offer another hint as to why people may not stop working altogether. Millions of people are employed in entertainment and sports, competing for clout in activities that some consider immaterial. Perhaps when AI s overtake humans, interest in watching such games will wane. But evidence from sports where humans are already second-rate suggests otherwise. Since IBM ’s DeepBlue defeated Garry Kasparov, the world grandmaster, in chess in 1997, interest in the game has only increased. Other games that have been “solved” by AI , including Go, an ancient Chinese board game, and competitive video games, have witnessed a similar pattern. Across the world the number of video-game players has nearly doubled in the past decade, reaching 3.2bn last year. 游戏为人们为什么不能完全停止工作提供了另一个线索。数百万人受雇于娱乐和体育行业，在一些人认为无关紧要的活动中争夺影响力。也许当人工智能超越人类时，人们对观看这类游戏的兴趣就会减弱。但是，来自人类已经是二流的体育运动的证据表明，情况并非如此。自从 IBM 的“深蓝”(DeepBlue)在1997年的国际象棋比赛中击败世界特级大师加里•卡斯帕罗夫(GarryKasparov)以来，人们对这项运动的兴趣不断增加。其他被人工智能“解决”的游戏，包括围棋(一种古老的中国棋类游戏)和竞技视频游戏，也经历了类似的模式。过去10年，全球视频游戏玩家数量几乎翻了一番，去年达到32亿人。 Nowadays a growing class of gamers compete or stream for a living. 如今，越来越多的游戏玩家以竞争或流为生。 AI might supercharge this interest. 人工智能可能会增加这种利息。 As Banks speculated, humans might specialise in “the things that really [matter] in life, such as sport, games, romance, studying dead languages, barbarian societies and impossible problems, and climbing high mountains without the aid of a safety harness.” Other humans would presumably want to watch them, too. 正如班克斯推测的那样，人类可能专注于“生活中真正(重要)的事情，比如体育、游戏、浪漫、学习已经消亡的语言、野蛮社会和不可能解决的问题，以及在没有安全带帮助的情况下攀登高山。”其他人大概也会想要观察它们。 It seems unlikely that people will give up control of politics to robots. Once AI s surpass humans, people will presumably pay even closer attention to them. Some political tasks might be delegated: humans could, for instance, put their preferences into an AI model that produces proposals for how to balance them. Yet as a number of political philosophers, including John Locke in the 17th century and John Rawls in the 20th, have argued, participation in political procedures gives outcomes legitimacy in the eyes of fellow citizens. 人们似乎不太可能把政治控制权交给机器人。一旦人工智能超越人类，人们大概会更加关注它们。一些政治任务可能会被委派下去: 例如，人类可以将自己的偏好放入人工智能模型中，该模型会为如何平衡这些偏好提供建议。然而，正如许多政治哲学家(包括17世纪的约翰•洛克(John Locke)和20世纪的约翰•罗尔斯(John Rawls))所主张的那样，参与政治程序使结果在同胞眼中具有合法性。 There would also be more cynical considerations at play. Humans like to have influence over one another. This would be true even in a world in which everyone’s basic needs and wants are met by machines. 此外，还有更多愤世嫉俗的考虑因素在起作用。人类喜欢相互影响。即使在一个每个人的基本需求和愿望都由机器满足的世界里，这也是真实的。 Indeed, the wealthiest 1% of Americans participate politically at two to three times the rate of the general public on a range of measures from voting to time spent on politics. 事实上，最富有的1% 的美国人参与政治的比率是普通大众的2到3倍，他们参与政治的程度从投票到花在政治上的时间不等。 Last, consider areas where humans have an advantage in providing a good or service—call it a “human premium”. This premium would preserve demand for labour even in an age of superadvanced AI . One place where this might be true is in making private information public. 最后，考虑一下人类在提供商品或服务方面具有优势的领域ーー称之为“人类溢价”。即使在超级先进的人工智能时代，这种溢价也将维持对劳动力的需求。有一个地方可能是正确的，那就是公开私人信息。 So long as people are more willing to share their secrets with other people than machines, there will be a role for those who are trusted to reveal that information to the world selectively, ready for it then to be ingested by machines. 只要人们比机器更愿意与他人分享自己的秘密，那么那些被信任的人就会扮演一个角色，他们会有选择性地向世界透露这些信息，随时准备好让机器接受它们。 Your correspondent would like to think that investigative journalists will still have jobs. 你们的记者希望调查记者仍然有工作。 The human premium might appear elsewhere, too. People value history, myths and meaning. Non-fungible tokens, for which provenance can be verified on a blockchain, are typically valued at many multiples more than images with identical pixels but a different history. 人类的溢价可能也会出现在其它地方。人们重视历史、神话和意义。不可替代的标记，其来源可以在区块链上验证，通常比具有相同像素但历史不同的图像的价值高出许多倍。 In areas such as caregiving and therapy, humans derive value from others spending their scarce time with them, which adds feeling to an interaction. 在护理和治疗等领域，人类从其他人与他们共度的宝贵时间中获得价值，这增加了互动的感觉。 Artificial diamonds, which have the same molecular structure as those from the ground, trade at an enormous discount—around 70% by one estimate. In the future, items with a “made by a human” tag might be especially desirable. 人造钻石的分子结构与地面钻石相同，其交易价格有很大的折扣，据估计折扣约为70% 。将来，带有“由人类制造”标签的物品可能会特别受欢迎。 People problems 人的问题 If this premium is big enough, it could even weigh on growth. Divide the sectors of the economy into those with a large human premium and those without. 如果这种溢价足够大，甚至可能拖累经济增长。将经济部门划分为人力资本溢价较高的部门和人力资本没有溢价的部门。 If humans do not substitute machine-produced goods and services for those made by fellow humans, the Baumol effect would only deepen. Measured economic growth could even hit zero. Indeed, if extremely powerful AI failed to supercharge growth, it would suggest that the economy had already moved beyond materiality towards play, politics and areas where what people value most of all is interacting with others. 如果人类不用机器生产的产品和服务来替代人类生产的产品和服务，鲍莫尔效应只会加深。经济增长甚至可能达到零。事实上，如果非常强大的人工智能未能加速增长，这将表明，经济已经超越了物质性，转向了游戏、政治以及人们最看重的领域，即与他人互动。 Perhaps one day AI s will produce entirely new goods and services that will outcompete the desire to please and interact with other humans. The manner in which such a contest played out would reveal something profound: just how much of a “social animal” is a human? ■ 也许有一天，人工智能将生产出全新的商品和服务，这些商品和服务将超越取悦他人和与他人互动的欲望。这样一场竞赛的进行方式将揭示一些深刻的东西: 究竟“社会性动物”在多大程度上是一个人？￭ For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in economics, finance and markets, sign up to Money Talks , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 如果你想了解更多关于经济、金融和市场方面的重大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯 Money Talks。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/23/what-would-humans-do-in-a-world-of-super-ai 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/23/what-would-humans-do-in-a-world-of-super-ai 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Free exchange 自由交换 What performance-enhancing stimulants mean for economic growth 提高绩效的兴奋剂对经济增长意味着什么 Could America’s Adderall shortage have harmed its productivity? 美国阿得拉(Adderall)的短缺会损害其生产率吗？ May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 T OWARDS THE end of last year America began running short of medicines used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ), including Adderall (an amphetamine) and Ritalin (a central-nervous-system stimulant). Nine in ten pharmacies reported shortages of the medication, which tens of millions of Americans use to help improve focus and concentration. 去年年底，美国开始短缺治疗注意力缺陷多动障碍(ADHD)的药物，包括阿得拉(一种安非他明)和利他林(一种中枢神经系统兴奋剂)。十分之九的药店报告药物短缺，数以千万计的美国人使用这种药物来帮助提高注意力和集中力。 Around the same time, something intriguing happened: American productivity, a measure of efficiency at work, dropped. In the first quarter of 2023, output per hour fell by 3%. 大约在同一时间，一些有趣的事情发生了: 美国的生产率——衡量工作效率的指标——下降了。2023年第一季度，每小时产量下降了3% 。 Coincidence? Probably. Lots of other things could have explained the productivity dip. Equally, though, many of America’s most productive people rely on Adderall to get the job done. It often seems like half of Silicon Valley, the most innovative place on Earth, is on the stuff. 巧合吗？也许吧。很多其他因素可以解释生产力的下降。同样，尽管，许多美国最有生产力的人依赖阿得拉来完成工作。硅谷是地球上最具创新精神的地方，它似乎有一半的人都在使用这种东西。 And surprising things can cause GDP to rise and fall, including holidays, strikes and the weather. What’s more, the economic history is clear: without things that give people a buzz, the world would still be in the economic dark ages. 令人惊讶的事情可以导致 GDP 的上升和下降，包括假期、罢工和天气。更重要的是，经济史很清楚: 如果没有那些能让人兴奋的事情，世界仍将处于经济黑暗时代。 Not all drug consumption helps people work better, of course. Don Draper from “Mad Men”, a TV series about advertising executives in the 1960s, came across many of his finest ideas three Scotches deep. But contrary to popular belief Ernest Hemingway, one of America’s greatest authors, never advised “write drunk, edit sober”, preferring to write liquor-free. 当然，并非所有的药物消费都能帮助人们更好地工作。《广告狂人》(Mad Men)是一部关于上世纪60年代广告业高管的电视连续剧。但与流行的观点相反，作为美国最伟大的作家之一，欧内斯特·海明威从来不建议“醉酒写作，清醒编辑”，而是宁愿不喝酒。 In a book published in 1983 David Ogilvy, perhaps the most famous real-life mad man, warned of the dangers of drunks in the office. Use of cocaine, common on Wall Street and in Hollywood, can give people a short-term boost. It also causes grave long-term problems. 在1983年出版的一本书中，也许是现实生活中最著名的疯子大卫 · 奥格威警告人们在办公室里喝醉酒的危险。可卡因的使用，在华尔街和好莱坞很常见，可以给人们一个短期的刺激。它还会带来严重的长期问题。 Indeed, economists normally think of mood-altering substances as a drag on prosperity. One estimate in 2007 put the cost of drug abuse in America at $193bn, or around 1.3% of GDP . More recently economists have looked at “deaths of despair”, which many link to abuse of opioids. In 2021 more than 80,000 Americans died from opioid overdoses. 事实上，经济学家通常认为情绪改变物质会拖累经济繁荣。据2007年的一项估计，美国的药物滥用成本为1930亿美元，约占 GDP 的1.3% 。最近，经济学家研究了“绝望之死”，其中许多与阿片类药物滥用有关。2021年，超过8万美国人死于阿片类药物过量。 But stimulants can play a positive role, too. Consider two of them: sugar and coffee. The first allowed people to work harder; the second allowed them to work smarter. 但兴奋剂也可以起到积极的作用。考虑其中的两个: 糖和咖啡。前者让人们更努力地工作，后者让人们更聪明地工作。 Until the start of the 18th century calories were a significant constraint on Western economic growth. In 1700 total food supply per person in Britain was equivalent to around 2,000 calories a day—enough for the average man to survive, but not to do a great deal more. 直到18世纪初，卡路里一直是制约西方经济增长的重要因素。1700年，英国人均食物供应量相当于每天大约2000卡路里的热量，足够一个普通人生存，但不能做更多。 Workers were therefore inefficient. Many of the poor, who survived on even more meagre diets, barely had the energy to move, let alone do anything useful. 因此，工人效率低下。许多穷人靠着更为微薄的食物生存下来，几乎没有精力搬家，更不用说做任何有用的事情了。 This changed when sugar imports from Britain’s colonies increased. Annual sugar consumption per person rose from around 5lbs a year in 1700 to 20lbs by 1800—several times higher than in continental Europe. 当从英国殖民地进口的糖增加时，这种情况发生了变化。人均年糖消费量从1700年的5磅左右上升到1800年的20磅，是欧洲大陆的几倍。 After 1800 imports then soared as Britons developed a taste for sweet tea and cakes. The change from a fibre-heavy to a sugar-heavy diet, noted Robert Fogel, a Nobel prize-winning economist, “raised the proportion of ingested energy that [could] be metabolised”. 1800年以后，随着英国人对甜茶和蛋糕的喜爱，进口量猛增。诺贝尔经济学奖得主罗伯特•福格尔(Robert Fogel)指出，从高纤维饮食向高糖饮食的转变，“提高了(可能)代谢的摄入能量的比例”。 Some observed that a growing share of Englishmen were getting fat. But the imports also gave Britain’s economy a sugar high. In France in the late 18th century about 10% of people could not work for lack of nourishment. In Britain, by contrast, only the bottom 3% were incapable. 一些人注意到越来越多的英国人变胖了。但是进口也给英国经济带来了甜蜜的快感。在18世纪末的法国，大约有10% 的人由于缺乏营养而无法工作。相比之下，在英国，只有最底层的3% 的人无能为力。 In the 18th century British GDP growth was seven times as fast as France’s. Fogel reckoned that “bringing the ultra-poor into the labour force [and] raising the energy available for work by those in the labour force” explains about one-third of Britain’s economic growth in the 19th and 20th centuries. 在18世纪，英国的 GDP 增长速度是法国的7倍。福格尔认为，“将极端贫困人口纳入劳动力大军，并提高劳动力可用于工作的能源”解释了19世纪和20世纪英国经济增长的三分之一左右。 Coffee, meanwhile, pushed the middle classes to do bigger and better things. Joel Mokyr of Northwestern University has stressed the importance of a “culture of growth”, the title of a book he published in 2016, in explaining Europe’s industrialisation. 与此同时，咖啡促使中产阶级做更大、更好的事情。西北大学的乔尔•莫基尔(Joel Mokyr)强调了“增长文化”(他2016年出版的一本书的书名)在解释欧洲工业化方面的重要性。 During this period science became less academic, and more focused on solving real-world problems. Over time it became the handmaiden of inventions, such as the internal-combustion engine, which massively lifted living standards. 在这一时期，科学变得不那么学术化，而更多地关注于解决现实世界的问题。随着时间的推移，它成为发明的仆人，如内燃机，这大大提高了生活水平。 Coffee houses, which some at the time called “penny universities”, played a crucial role. 一些当时被称为“便士大学”的咖啡馆起到了至关重要的作用。 By the early 18th century central London was home to as many as 600 coffee shops. The Marine Coffee House in London was an early location for a set of lectures on mathematics, Mr Mokyr points out. 到18世纪早期，伦敦市中心有多达600家咖啡店。莫基尔先生指出，位于伦敦的海洋咖啡馆是举办一系列数学讲座的早期场所。 The London Chapter Coffee House was the favourite of the fellows of the Royal Society, the intellectual godfathers of the scientific revolution, and was where people gathered to discuss how science could be applied. 伦敦分会咖啡馆是英国皇家学会(Royal Society)研究员们的最爱，他们是科学革命的知识分子教父，人们聚集在这里讨论如何应用科学。 Caffeine lubricated the discussion in a way that alcohol—a depressant—never could. The chemical increases both selective attention (focusing on the relevant stimulus) and sustained attention (maintaining it). 咖啡因以一种酒精(一种镇静剂)永远无法做到的方式润滑了这场讨论。这种化学物质增加了选择性注意力(关注相关刺激)和持续性注意力(保持)。 This was not the only way in which coffee fuelled growth. In the 18th century Europe came to rely more heavily on clocks to organise the timing of economic activity, and less on the natural rhythms of the human body, as was common in agricultural societies. 这不是咖啡促进经济增长的唯一途径。在18世纪，欧洲开始更多地依靠时钟来安排经济活动的时间，而不像农业社会那样依赖人体的自然节奏。 Factories cannot function unless everyone is there at the same time. Yet if people now had to get up at unnatural hours, they needed something to pep them up. 除非所有人同时在场，否则工厂无法运作。然而，如果人们现在不得不在不正常的时间起床，他们需要一些东西来鼓舞他们。 “Caffeine became instrumental to the regimented time of the urban industrialised societies,” according to Steven Topik of the University of California, Irvine. 加州大学欧文分校(University of California，Irvine)的史蒂文•托皮克(Steven Topik)表示: “咖啡因在城市工业化社会的严格管制时期发挥了重要作用。”。 Flying high 飞得很高 The prolonged shortage of ADHD medication has imposed real pain on those who need it to function. Fortunately, though, the shortage does now appear to be easing. Some pharmacies are finally getting drugs back in stock and regulators have removed some medications from their official-shortages list. ADHD 药物的长期短缺给那些需要它来维持机能的人带来了真正的痛苦。不过，幸运的是，短缺现在似乎正在缓解。一些药店终于恢复了药品库存，监管机构已经将一些药品从官方短缺名单中删除。 Silicon Valley types have been experimenting with other stimulants, such as nootropics, which are not in shortage. American productivity appears, once again, to be rising. Coincidence? ■ 硅谷人一直在试验其他兴奋剂，如益智药，这些药物并不短缺。美国的生产率似乎又一次在上升。巧合吗？￭ Read more from Free exchange, our column on economics: 阅读更多我们关于经济学的专栏《自由交换》 : Robert Lucas was a giant of macroeconomics (May 18th) 罗伯特 · 卢卡斯是一位宏观经济学巨人(5月18日) A new world order seeks to prioritise security and climate change (May 11th) 一个新的世界秩序寻求优先考虑安全和气候变化(5月11日) How Japanese policymakers ended up in a very deep hole (May 4th) 日本的政策制定者是如何最终陷入一个非常深的困境的(5月4日) For more expert analysis of the biggest stories in economics, finance and markets, sign up to Money Talks , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 如果你想了解更多关于经济、金融和市场方面的重大新闻的专家分析，请注册我们的每周订阅时事通讯 Money Talks。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/25/what-performance-enhancing-stimulants-mean-for-economic-growth 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2023/05/25/what-performance-enhancing-stimulants-mean-for-economic-growth 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Finance & economics 金融与经济 Sections 部分 Culture 文化 Science & technology 科技 Artificial brains are helping scientists study the real thing 人工大脑正在帮助科学家研究真实的东西 Neuroscience and AI :: No model is perfect. But that doesn’t stop them being useful 神经科学与人工智能: 没有模型是完美的，但这并不妨碍它们的实用性 Old tyres can become a climate-friendly fuel 旧轮胎可以成为气候友好型燃料 Recycling old tyres :: Getting fuel from your wheels 回收旧轮胎: : 从车轮中获取燃料 Parenting can be bad for the kids 为人父母对孩子不好 Helicopter beetles :: At least, from a genetic point of view 直升机甲虫: 至少从遗传学的角度来看是这样的 Why Venetians are pondering raising their entire city 为什么威尼斯人正在考虑提高他们的整个城市 Saving Venice :: A €5.5bn flood barrier has bought only a temporary reprieve ❗ 🔄 Finance & economics 金融与经济 Sections 部分 Culture 文化

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Neuroscience and AI 神经科学和人工智能 Artificial brains are helping scientists study the real thing 人工大脑正在帮助科学家研究真实的东西 No model is perfect. But that doesn’t stop them being useful 没有模型是完美的，但这并不妨碍它们的实用性 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 T HE STRIKING progress in artificial intelligence over the past decade is mostly down to advances in machine learning, whereby computers teach themselves complicated tasks by crunching large quantities of data, rather than having to be programmed directly by humans. 人工智能在过去十年取得的显著进步主要归功于机器学习的进步，计算机通过处理大量数据自学复杂的任务，而不必直接由人类编程。 This approach has driven rapid progress in computer vision, language translation and, most recently, the human-like conversational skills of chatbots such as GPT -4. 这种方法推动了计算机视觉、语言翻译以及最近的类人聊天机器人(如 GPT-4)会话技能的快速发展。 The learning is done by software models called “artificial neural networks” ( ANNS ). The standard description of an ANN is that it is loosely inspired by the networks of neurons in the human brain. It is de rigueur to follow that description with an immediate disclaimer, in which both computer scientists and neuroscientists jump in nervously to point out that the analogy is very rough, that ANN s are mere cartoons of real brains (if even that) and that they fail to capture the complexity of the biological organ. 学习是通过称为“人工神经网络”(ANNS)的软件模型完成的。人工神经网络的标准描述是，它是由人类大脑中的神经元网络松散地激发出来的。按照这样的描述立即做出免责声明是必要的，计算机科学家和神经科学家都紧张地跳出来指出这个类比非常粗糙，神经网络仅仅是真实大脑的卡通(如果真是这样的话) ，并且它们无法捕捉到生物器官的复杂性。 All that is true. But some neuroscientists are beginning to find that even cartoons can be useful. The inner workings of the best ANN s—those that are closest to matching human performance on tasks like identifying objects, or responding to text prompts—appear to have some remarkable similarities to the workings of brains. 这些都是真的。但是一些神经科学家开始发现即使是卡通也是有用的。最好的人工神经网络(ANN)的内部工作原理似乎与大脑的工作原理有一些惊人的相似之处。 ANN 与人类在识别物体或响应文本提示等任务上的表现最为接近。 Having taken inspiration from biology, in other words, programmers are now returning the favour, with their creations telling neuroscientists useful things about biological brains. 换句话说，在从生物学中获得灵感之后，程序员们现在正在回报这一恩惠，他们的发明告诉神经科学家有关生物大脑的有用信息。 The seminal study comparing brains and ANN s was published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in 2014. Daniel Yamins, a neuroscientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ), and his colleagues trained an ANN to pick out objects from photographs—a cat, for instance. The researchers compared what was going on inside the electronic network to what was happening inside the brains of macaque monkeys that had been set the same task, and whose brains had been wired with electrodes. 这项比较大脑和神经网络的开创性研究于2014年在美国国家科学院院刊上发表。麻省理工学院(MIT)的神经系统科学家丹尼尔 · 维生斯(Daniel Yamin)和他的同事们训练了一个人工神经网络(ANN) ，让它从照片(比如一只猫)中挑出物体。研究人员将电子网络中发生的事情与猕猴大脑中发生的事情进行了比较，猕猴的大脑被安排了相同的任务，并且它们的大脑被连接了电极。 ANN s are built up from large numbers of artificial neurons that, just like their natural counterparts, can be on or off; firing or silent. These neurons are linked together in layered, interconnected networks. Activity in lower layers can affect how neurons in the higher layers fire. 人工神经网络是由大量的人工神经元组成的，就像它们的天然对应物一样，它们可以开启或关闭，可以发射或沉默。这些神经元以分层互连的网络连接在一起。低层神经元的活动可以影响高层神经元的放电方式。 Inside the black box 在黑盒子里 Dr Yamins’s test involves image recognition, which in natural brains proceeds hierarchically. One layer of neurons will detect simple features such as patches of light or dark. A higher layer organises those into edges; a still higher layer combines the edges into shapes. 维生素博士的测试涉及图像识别，在自然大脑中，图像识别是分层次进行的。一层神经元将检测到一些简单的特征，例如光斑或黑斑。更高的层将这些边组织成边; 更高的层将边组合成形状。 That process of increasing abstraction continues until, eventually, the brain decides whether it is looking at a cat, a dog or a banana. 这个增加抽象的过程一直持续到最后，大脑决定它是在看一只猫，一只狗还是一根香蕉。 Images that share some characteristics provoke similar clusters of neurons to fire. If a certain set of neurons fires when looking at a cat, another, partially overlapping set is likely to fire in response to a picture of a dog. 共享某些特征的图像会激发类似的神经元群。如果一组特定的神经元在看猫的时候被激活，那么另一组部分重叠的神经元可能会在看到狗的图片时被激活。 The neurons that respond to both images are thought to be representing features—fur, four legs and a tail, say—that are present in both pictures. 人们认为，对两幅图像都有反应的神经元代表着两幅图像中都存在的特征ーー毛发、四条腿和一条尾巴。 When Dr Yamins and his colleagues compared what was going on inside the macaque brains to the silicon ones, they found arresting parallels between how the monkeys represented images and how the computers did. 当亚米斯博士和他的同事们将猕猴大脑内部的活动与硅大脑进行比较时，他们发现猴子表现图像的方式与计算机表现图像的方式有着惊人的相似之处。 “The paper was a game-changer,” says Nancy Kanwisher, another professor at MIT who has spent much of her career studying the human visual system, and who now uses ANN s in some of her research. “The [artificial] network was not in any way designed to fit the brain. It was just designed to solve the problem and yet we see this incredible fit.” “这篇论文改变了游戏规则,”麻省理工学院的另一位教授南希 · 坎维舍(Nancy Kanwisher)说，她的大部分职业生涯都在研究人类视觉系统，现在她的一些研究中使用了人工神经网络。“(人工)网络在设计上绝不是为了适应大脑。它只是为了解决这个问题而设计的，然而我们看到了这种令人难以置信的契合。” Since then, whenever an ANN model has close to human performance on a task, neuroscientists have been eager to compare it with natural brains. They have found similarities between ANN s trained to recognise speech and process language, such as those used in transcription software, and the human auditory cortex. 从那时起，每当一个人工神经网络模型在一项任务中的表现接近于人类时，神经科学家就迫不及待地将其与自然大脑进行比较。他们发现了被训练来识别语音和处理语言的神经网络(如转录软件中使用的神经网络)与人类听觉皮层之间的相似之处。 The pattern holds for written language too. One paper published in 2021 compared human brain activity against many different commercial language models. It found that the most sophisticated ANN —at the time Open AI ’s GPT -2—was the closest match for human brain activity. The better models get at solving certain tasks, the more similar they seem to get to the human brain doing the same. 这种模式也适用于书面语言。2021年发表的一篇论文将人脑活动与许多不同的商业语言模型进行了比较。研究发现，最复杂的人工神经网络ーー当时 OpenAI 的 GPT-2ーー与人类大脑活动最接近。解决特定任务的模型越好，它们对人类大脑做同样事情的效果就越相似。 Another indication that the analogy between artificial neural networks and natural ones is useful is that the study of the former can make testable predictions about the latter. A paper published in 2022, by researchers at Columbia University and MIT , found that an ANN trained on image-recognition tasks produced a group of artificial neurons devoted to classifying foodstuffs specifically. When the paper was published there was, as far as anyone knew, no analogous area of the human visual system. 人工神经网络和自然神经网络之间的类比有用的另一个迹象是，对前者的研究可以对后者做出可检验的预测。哥伦比亚大学和麻省理工学院的研究人员在2022年发表的一篇论文中发现，一个接受过图像识别任务训练的人工神经网络产生了一组专门用于对食品进行分类的人工神经元。当这篇论文发表的时候，据大家所知，人类的视觉系统中没有类似的区域。 But the following year researchers from the same laboratory announced that they had discovered a region of the human brain that does indeed contain neurons that fire more often when a person is shown pictures of food. 但是第二年，来自同一实验室的研究人员宣布，他们发现人类大脑的一个区域确实含有神经元，当人们看到食物的图片时，这些神经元会更频繁地发出信号。 Perhaps the strongest evidence for the claim that artificial brains can reveal useful things about biological ones is the apparent ability for software and wetware to interact with each other directly. 人工大脑能够揭示生物学上有用的东西，也许最有力的证据就是软件和湿件之间直接相互作用的明显能力。 Nicholas Sexton and Bradley Love, a pair of neuroscientists of University College London, started out rather sceptical about the supposed resemblance between natural and artificial neural networks. Nicholas Sexton 和 Bradley Love 是伦敦大学学院的两位神经科学家，他们一开始对自然神经网络和人工神经网络之间的相似性持怀疑态度。 Simply seeing similar patterns of activity, they argued, was not enough to claim that ANN s and brains were solving problems in the same way. To prove that the correspondence was meaningful, they suggested investigating whether it was possible to feed brain activity into an ANN . 他们认为，仅仅看到类似的活动模式并不足以断言人工神经网络和大脑是以同样的方式解决问题的。为了证明这种对应是有意义的，他们建议研究是否有可能将大脑活动输入人工神经网络。 In 2022 they published a paper in Science Advances that did just that. The researchers fed an ANN trained to recognise images data recorded by an MRI scanner examining human brains. The idea was to try to let the ANN “see” through human eyes. Sure enough, the hotwired ANN was able to interpret data from any of the hierarchical layers of the biological visual system—though it did best with data from the higher levels, which had already been partly processed by the brain in question. 2022年，他们在《科学进展》上发表了一篇论文，正是这样做的。研究人员给一个人工神经网络喂食，该网络经过训练，能够识别通过核磁共振扫描仪检查人脑所记录的图像数据。这个想法是试图让人工神经网络通过人类的眼睛“看”。毫无疑问，热线神经网络能够解释生物视觉系统中任何一个层级的数据ーー尽管它最适合解释来自更高层级的数据，因为这些数据已经部分地被有问题的大脑处理过了。 If the computer model was shown brain activity from a human that was looking at a picture of a greyhound, for example, then it would say that it was looking at a greyhound—as opposed to some other object—almost 70% of the time. 例如，如果计算机模型显示的是一个人在看一张灰狗的图片时的大脑活动，那么它会说，几乎70% 的时间它在看一只灰狗，而不是其他物体。 The fact that a silicon brain can happily accept half-chewed data from a biological one suggests that, on some level, the two systems are performing the same sort of cognitive task. 硅大脑可以愉快地接受来自生物大脑的半咀嚼的数据，这一事实表明，在某种程度上，两个系统正在执行相同类型的认知任务。 That insight might prove useful for brain-computer interfaces, which are devices that aim to allow biological brains to talk directly to machines. An ANN linked up to a camera, for instance, might be used to feed partly processed visual information into the brain. That might help treat some forms of blindness caused by damage to the brain’s visual system. 这种见解可能会被证明对大脑-计算机接口有用，这种设备的目的是让生物大脑直接与机器对话。例如，与摄像机相连的人工神经网络可以用来将部分经过处理的视觉信息输入大脑。这可能有助于治疗由大脑视觉系统损伤引起的某些形式的失明。 Several different research groups in Europe and America are already testing that idea in experiments on macaques. 欧洲和美国的几个不同的研究小组已经在猕猴身上试验了这个想法。 Models of the mind 心智模型 Even those most enthusiastic about ANN s do not argue they are perfect analogues of the human brain. Some make mistakes that humans never would—give an ANN a picture of a cat but with the skin of an elephant, for example, and the model is more likely to identify it as an elephant. But no scientific model is ever perfect. The question is whether it is useful. 即使是那些最热衷于神经网络的人也不认为它们是人类大脑的完美类似物。有些人会犯人类永远不会犯的错误ーー例如，如果给神经网络一张猫的照片，但是有大象的皮肤，该模型就更有可能将其识别为大象。但是没有一个科学模型是完美的。问题是它是否有用。 One of neuroscience’s problems is that experiments are difficult to run, for both ethical and practical reasons. Poking and prodding ANN s could offer a useful alternative. 神经科学的一个问题是，由于伦理和实际原因，实验很难进行。戳戳人工神经网络可以提供一个有用的替代方案。 In any case, comparing biology and silicon continues to produce intriguing results. In a paper published in May researchers from the University of Texas at Austin used a neural network to monitor brain signals from participants in an MRI scanner. Using just data from the MRI , the ANN could produce a rough summary of a story that the test subject was listening to, a description of a film they were watching, or the gist of a sentence they were imagining. “When I was in graduate school I would dream about something like this existing,” says Dr Love. 无论如何，比较生物学和硅继续产生有趣的结果。在五月份发表的一篇论文中，德克萨斯州大学奥斯汀分校的研究人员使用神经网络来监测核磁共振扫描仪参与者的大脑信号。利用核磁共振的数据，人工神经网络可以对测试对象正在听的故事、他们正在看的电影的描述或者他们正在想象的句子的主旨做出一个粗略的概括。“当我在研究生院的时候，我会梦想有这样的东西存在,”拉夫博士说。 “I thought it would be hundreds of years until we had something that works this well.” ■ “我原以为要过几百年我们才能有这么好的东西。”￭ Curious about the world? To enjoy our mind-expanding science coverage, sign up to Simply Science , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 对世界感到好奇? 为了享受我们开阔视野的科学报道，请注册“简单科学”，我们的每周订阅时事通讯。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/artificial-brains-are-helping-scientists-study-the-real-thing 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/artificial-brains-are-helping-scientists-study-the-real-thing 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Recycling old tyres 回收旧轮胎 Old tyres can become a climate-friendly fuel 旧轮胎可以成为气候友好型燃料 Getting fuel from your wheels 从你的轮子里获取燃料 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 G ETTING RID of old tyres has long been a problem. Every year more than a billion reach the end of the road. Until recently, most were thrown into landfills or piled up in storage yards, which occasionally caught fire. 摆脱旧轮胎一直是个问题。每年有超过十亿人到达路的尽头。直到最近，大多数垃圾还被扔进垃圾填埋场或堆放在储藏场，偶尔还会着火。 Tougher environmental laws mean many countries now insist tyres are recycled. And they are, sort of. Some of the methods might be better than dumping them, but they are not especially green. 更严格的环保法律意味着许多国家现在坚持轮胎是可回收的。算是吧。有些方法可能比抛弃它们更好，但它们并不是特别环保。 Energy recovery is one common method. This involves burning tyres in an incinerator to generate electricity, or as a supplementary fuel to provide heat for cement kilns and other industrial processes. But that produces planet-warming pollution. 能量回收是一种常用的方法。这包括在焚化炉中焚烧轮胎以发电，或作为辅助燃料为水泥窑和其他工业过程提供热量。但是，这会产生导致全球变暖的污染。 Tyres can be used whole or shredded in construction projects, such as building embankments or repairing roads. There are, however, concerns about chemicals from the tyres leaching out and contaminating the ground. 轮胎可以在建筑工程中使用，例如修筑路堤或修理道路。然而，人们担心轮胎中的化学物质会渗出并污染地面。 Some firms, therefore, have begun exploring an alternative, pleasingly symmetrical idea. Since tyres are mostly made from hydrocarbons, it should be possible in principle to turn old tyres into low-carbon fuel which can be used to run the vehicles they came from. 因此，一些公司已经开始探索另一种令人愉快的对称想法。由于轮胎主要由碳氢化合物制成，原则上应该可以将旧轮胎转化为低碳燃料，用于驱动来自旧轮胎的车辆。 One of the most ambitious firms pursuing the idea is Wastefront, which is based in Oslo, in Norway. Later this year the company will start building a giant tyre-recycling plant in Sunderland in north-east England. 追求这一理念的最雄心勃勃的公司之一是总部位于挪威奥斯陆的 Wastefront。今年晚些时候，该公司将开始在桑德兰东北英格兰建造一个巨大的轮胎回收厂。 In a couple of years, when the plant is fully operational, it will be able to turn 8m old tyres into new products, including some 25,000 tonnes of a gooey black liquid called tyre derived oil ( TDO ). 几年后，当该工厂全面投入运营时，它将能够将800万个旧轮胎转化为新产品，其中包括约2.5万吨名为轮胎衍生油(TDO)的粘稠黑色液体。 The process works by deconstructing a tyre into its three main components. One is steel, which is used to brace the structure of a tyre and which can be readily recycled. The second is carbon black, a powdery, soot-like form of carbon used to improve the durability of the tyre. 这个过程的工作原理是将轮胎分解成三个主要组成部分。一种是钢，用来支撑轮胎的结构，可以很容易地回收利用。第二种是碳黑，一种粉末状的类似煤烟的碳，用来提高轮胎的耐久性。 The third is rubber. Some of that will be natural rubber obtained from the sap of rubber trees. Some will be the synthetic sort, which is made in factories from crude oil. 第三种是橡胶。其中一些将是从橡胶树的树液中获得的天然橡胶。其中一些将是由原油工厂生产的合成油。 In order to do the deconstructing, the tyres are first shredded and the steel bracing removed. The remaining material then goes through a process called pyrolysis. This involves exposing a material to high temperatures in the absence of air. 为了进行解构，首先要将轮胎粉碎，并拆除钢支撑。剩余的物质然后经过一个叫做热解的过程。这包括在没有空气的情况下将材料暴露在高温下。 That causes the rubber to decompose into a mix of hydrocarbon gases, which are drawn off. What is left behind is pure carbon black. 这导致橡胶分解成碳氢化合物气体的混合物，这些气体被抽走。留下的是纯炭黑。 Once the drawn-off gas has cooled down, a proportion of it liquefies into TDO . The remaining gases, which include methane, are funnelled back around to be burned, fuelling the reactor. This, says Vianney Valès, Wastefront’s boss, creates a closed-loop system that prevents emissions. The overall output of the process by weight is 40% TDO , 30% carbon black, 20% steel and 10% gas. 一旦抽出的气体冷却下来，其中一部分液化成 TDO。剩余的气体，包括甲烷，通过漏斗回流燃烧，为反应堆提供燃料。Wastefront 的老板维安尼•瓦莱斯(Vianney Valès)表示，这创造了一个防止排放的闭环系统。该工艺按重量计算的总产量为40% TDO，30% 炭黑，20% 钢和10% 气体。 The carbon black can be re-used to make new tyres. That is of interest to tyre-makers because it helps efforts to become carbon neutral. Producing new carbon black requires the partial burning of heavy oil residues or coal, which produces plenty of greenhouse-gas emissions. 这种炭黑可以再用来制造新轮胎。轮胎制造商对此很感兴趣，因为这有助于实现碳中和。生产新的炭黑需要部分燃烧重油残渣或煤炭，这会产生大量的温室气体排放。 The recovered TDO is similar to crude oil fresh from the ground, and is well-suited for making diesel. To do that, Wastefront is working with Vitol, a Swiss company that is the world’s largest independent oil trader, and which operates a number of refineries around the world. 回收的 TDO 类似于新鲜地面原油，非常适合制造柴油。为了做到这一点，Wastefront 正与瑞士公司维多(Vitol)合作。维多是全球最大的独立石油交易商，在世界各地经营着许多炼油厂。 While not completely carbon-neutral, diesel made from TDO does produce an 80-90% reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, compared with the conventional fuel. The future market for cleaner fuels is likely to remain substantial, even though electric vehicles are steadily replacing those with combustion engines. 虽然不是完全碳中和，但由 TDO 制造的柴油与传统燃料相比，确实可以减少主要温室气体二氧化碳排放80-90% 。尽管电动汽车正在稳步用内燃机取代电动汽车，但未来的清洁燃料市场可能仍然很大。 Fossil-fuelled vehicles will remain on the road for decades to come, particularly large commercial vehicles like lorries, which are harder to electrify and which are big burners of diesel. The fuel will also be needed by trains and ships. 未来几十年，化石燃料汽车仍将在道路上行驶，特别是像卡车这样的大型商用车辆，它们更难通电，而且燃烧大量柴油。火车和轮船也需要这些燃料。 So, anything that helps to clean up overall emissions during what will be a long transition to the electrification of transport is useful—especially if it also shrinks a mountainous waste problem. ■ 因此，在交通运输向电气化的漫长过渡期间，任何有助于清理总排放量的措施都是有益的，尤其是如果它还能减少山区垃圾问题的话。￭ 八点一刻杂志网 www.badianyike.com Curious about the world? To enjoy our mind-expanding science coverage, sign up to Simply Science , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 对世界感到好奇? 为了享受我们开阔视野的科学报道，请注册“简单科学”，我们的每周订阅时事通讯。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/old-tyres-can-become-a-climate-friendly-fuel 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/old-tyres-can-become-a-climate-friendly-fuel 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Helicopter beetles 直升机甲虫 Parenting can be bad for the kids 为人父母对孩子不好 At least, from a genetic point of view 至少，从遗传学的角度来看 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 P ARENTS OFTEN fret about whether they are doing their jobs properly. Take too hands-off an approach and the kids will grow up feral. Smother them with attention, though, and the risk is of raising offspring unable to function on their own. 父母经常为他们是否正确地完成了自己的工作而烦恼。如果不采取措施，孩子们长大后会变得野蛮。尽管如此，用心地闷死它们，风险在于养育无法独立生活的后代。 Evolution, it seems, faces similar trade-offs. In a paper published in Proceedings of the Royal Society B on May 24th, Rahia Mashoodh and Rebecca Kilner, a pair of biologists at the University of Cambridge, offer an explanation for a curious fact: once a species has evolved to care for its young, the trait is almost never lost again. 进化似乎也面临着类似的权衡。在5月24日发表于皇家学会报告 b 的一篇论文中，剑桥大学的两位生物学家 Rahia Mashoodh 和 Rebecca Kilner 对一个奇怪的事实给出了一个解释: 一旦一个物种进化到可以照顾它的幼崽，这种特性就几乎再也不会丢失了。 They argue that parental pampering comes with a genetic price that makes returning to the status quo ante difficult. 他们认为，父母的溺爱伴随着基因的代价，这使得恢复原状变得困难。 The price in question is mutations—random changes in an organism’s genome. Some are seriously harmful, and quickly weeded out by natural selection. But many are only mildly deleterious, and do not much hamper an individual’s chances of reproducing as long as conditions are good. 有问题的代价是突变ーー生物体基因组的随机变化。有些是非常有害的，很快就会被自然选择淘汰。但是许多只是轻微的有害，并且只要条件良好，并不会阻碍个体的繁殖机会。 With that in mind, researchers have long speculated that doting parents provide exactly the sorts of pleasant environment that allow offspring with mildly damaging mutations to survive when they otherwise would not. 考虑到这一点，研究人员长期以来一直推测，溺爱孩子的父母恰恰提供了一种愉快的环境，这种环境允许具有轻度破坏性突变的后代在其他情况下无法存活下来。 Testing the theory requires tracking species over many generations. That is tricky, for many species that provide parental care are irritatingly long-lived. Dr Mashoodh and Dr Kilner turned to the burying beetle, which combines parental care with a relatively short lifespan. 检验这一理论需要对物种进行多代追踪。这是棘手的，因为许多物种，提供父母照顾是令人恼火的长寿。Mashoodh 博士和 Kilner 博士转向了埋葬甲虫，它结合了父母的照顾和相对较短的寿命。 The beetles breed in the corpses of small mammals and birds, turning them into carefully tended nests and regularly spraying them with disinfectant chemicals to keep them clear of bothersome pathogens. 这些甲虫在小型哺乳动物和鸟类的尸体上繁殖，把它们变成精心照料的巢穴，并定期向它们喷洒消毒剂，使它们远离烦人的病原体。 When their young hatch, the parents protect them from predators and feed them bits of the carcass. 当它们的幼崽孵化时，父母会保护它们免受捕食者的伤害，并给它们喂食一些尸体。 The researchers set up two populations. In one, beetles were raised by doting parents. In the other, beetles hatched out of eggs near a dead mouse but had no parents to make life easier. This split was maintained for 20 generations. 研究人员建立了两个种群。在其中一个项目中，甲虫是由溺爱它们的父母抚养长大的。在另一个实验中，甲虫在一只死老鼠附近从卵中孵化出来，但是没有父母来使生活变得更容易。这种分裂持续了20代。 Drs Mashoodh and Kilner then inbred the resulting descendants. Inbreeding amplifies damaging mutations, and often results in extinction. 然后，Mashoodh 博士和 Kilner 博士将由此产生的后代近亲繁殖。近亲繁殖放大了破坏性的突变，并经常导致灭绝。 But the rate at which inbreeding drives a species off the evolutionary cliff varies with how many damaging mutations are present in the first place. 但是，近亲繁殖将一个物种推下进化悬崖的速度，取决于首先存在多少破坏性突变。 The population of beetles whose ancestors had been pampered by their parents died out in just two generations of inbreeding. By contrast, beetles that had a history of surviving alone endured for four. 甲虫的祖先曾经被它们的父母溺爱过的种群在仅仅两代的近亲交配中就灭绝了。相比之下，有独自生存历史的甲虫能存活四年。 That strongly suggests that the hatchlings denied parental care over the course of many generations ended up with considerably healthier genomes than those that had been looked after by mum and dad. 这有力地表明，在许多代的过程中，这些被剥夺了父母照顾的幼体最终获得了比父母照顾过的幼体更健康的基因组。 Parental care, in other words, is a one-way evolutionary street because it generates a problem that only it can solve. That makes going backwards hard. But it is not all bad news. Although most mutations are harmful, the researchers point out that a few are helpful. 换句话说，父母照顾是一条单行道，因为它产生了一个只有它才能解决的问题。这让倒退变得困难。但也不全是坏消息。尽管大多数突变是有害的，研究人员指出，少数是有益的。 They speculate that a species full of helicopter parents might expose its young to more of the evolutionary bad—but also more of the good. ■ 他们推测，一个物种中充满了“直升机父母”，可能会让它的幼崽面临更多进化上的坏处ーー但也会面临更多的好处。￭ Curious about the world? To enjoy our mind-expanding science coverage, sign up to Simply Science , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 对世界感到好奇? 为了享受我们开阔视野的科学报道，请注册“简单科学”，我们的每周订阅时事通讯。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/parenting-can-be-bad-for-the-kids 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/parenting-can-be-bad-for-the-kids 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Saving Venice 拯救威尼斯 Why Venetians are pondering raising their entire city 为什么威尼斯人正在考虑提高他们的整个城市 A €5.5bn flood barrier has bought only a temporary reprieve 一道55亿英镑的防洪堤只换来了暂时的喘息之机 May 24th 2023 | Venice 2023年5月24日 | 威尼斯 T HE RELIEF in the City of Canals is palpable. For centuries, regular high tides— acqua alta to the locals—have flowed through Venice , submerging walkways, flooding buildings, and stopping boats from passing under its many bridges. 运河之城(City of Canal)的松了一口气是显而易见的。几个世纪以来，常规的高潮ーー当地人称之为水母ーー一直流经威尼斯，淹没人行道，淹没建筑物，阻止船只从许多桥下通过。 For most of the city, at least, that is no longer the case. In operation since last year, after nearly two decades under construction, a giant piece of hydraulic engineering called the Experimental Electromechanical Module—known by its Italian acronym MOSE —now protects Venice and its lagoon . In a city where waders were as easy to buy as postcards and ice cream, most people can now go about their business without consulting tide charts. Property prices are up, especially for flats and shops on the ground floor. 至少对大多数城市来说，情况已经不是这样了。经过近20年的建设，一个名为“实验机电模块”的巨型水利工程从去年开始投入使用，如今保护着威尼斯及其泻湖。在这个城市，防水靴就像明信片和冰淇淋一样容易买到，现在大多数人不用查看潮汐图就可以做自己的生意。房地产价格上涨，尤其是一楼的公寓和商店。 Or at least, they are for now. Although MOSE is up and running, there are questions about how long the barrier will last. The flood-defence scheme was designed to serve for a century. But Hermes Redi, the director-general of Consorzio Venezia Nuova ( CVN ), the Venetian engineering consortium that built it, fears that, thanks to a combination of climate change and the gradual sinking of the city itself, its useful lifespan might be just half as long. 至少目前是这样。尽管 MOSE 已经启动并运行，但关于这一障碍将持续多久仍存在疑问。这个防洪计划的设计寿命为一个世纪。但是，建造这座城市的威尼斯工程财团 Consorzio Venezia Nuova (CVN)的总干事赫尔墨斯 · 雷迪(Hermes Redi)担心，由于气候变化和城市自身的逐渐下沉，它的使用寿命可能只有原来的一半。 MOSE is made up of 78 hinged steel floodgates that run for 1.6km along the sea floor beneath the three inlets to the Venetian lagoon. MOSE 由78个铰链钢制防洪闸组成，沿着通往威尼斯泻湖的三个入口下方的海床延伸1.6公里。 When a high tide begins, machines that consume enough electricity to power “a small town”, as a technician puts it, compress air that is blasted into each floodgate. As seawater is forced out, the floodgates rise into nearly vertical positions. 当涨潮开始时，正如一位技术人员所说的那样，消耗足够电力为“一个小镇”供电的机器会压缩喷入每个防洪闸的空气。随着海水被挤出，防洪闸上升到几乎垂直的位置。 The resulting barrier holds back the Adriatic until the tide retreats. 由此形成的屏障阻挡了亚得里亚海，直到潮水退去。 That sinking feeling 那种下沉的感觉 For all its technological whizzyness, the system has downsides. Cost is one. Mr Redi reckons each raising of the barrier costs about €150,000 (other estimates are higher). Maintenance costs add up, too. Sand must be cleared from the machinery. 尽管这套系统技术先进，但它也有缺点。代价是一。雷迪先生估计，每提高一个门槛的成本约为15万英镑(其他估计更高)。维护费用也增加了。必须把机器上的沙子清理干净。 Each floodgate is designed to be removed every five years for defouling. Last year, when MOSE was used 36 times, the operating cost was more than €70m ($76m). 每个防洪闸的设计是每五年拆除一次，以便进行除污。去年，当 MOSE 被使用36次时，其运营成本超过7000万欧元(合7600万美元)。 The barrier also disrupts maritime traffic, causing protests from both fishermen and the big container ships that call at Marghera, a busy port in the lagoon. 这道屏障还扰乱了海上交通，引发了渔民和停靠在环礁湖繁忙港口 Marghera 的大型集装箱船的抗议。 Antonio Revedin of the North Adriatic Sea Port Authority says a delay can cost an individual cargo ship €80,000 a day—though a system of locks, due to come online later this year, should help. 北亚得里亚海港务局(North Adriatic Sea Port Authority)的安东尼奥•雷韦丁(Antonio Revedin)表示，延误可能导致一艘货轮每天损失8万英镑，不过一套定于今年晚些时候上线的船闸系统应该会有所帮助。 There are environmental issues, too. Most of Venice’s sewage flows into its canals. As Luigi Tosi, a geologist with Italy’s National Research Council ( CNR ), puts it, a lagoon that is sealed off too often would become “first a bathtub, then a sewer”. All that means that MOSE is only used when tides exceed 110cm. That means that some low-lying parts of the city, including St Mark’s square, still flood. 还有环境问题。威尼斯的大部分污水流入运河。正如意大利国家研究委员会(CNR)的地质学家路易吉 · 托西(Luigi Tosi)所说，一个经常被封闭的泻湖“先是一个浴缸，然后是一个下水道”。所有这一切意味着 MOSE 仅在潮汐超过110厘米时使用。这意味着城市的一些低洼地区，包括圣马可广场，仍然会发生洪水。 Rising sea levels will make those downsides more apparent as the barrier is raised more and more frequently. 随着屏障越来越频繁地升高，海平面上升将使这些不利因素更加明显。 One paper, published in 2021, predicted a rise in water levels of between 32 and 110cm in the Venetian lagoon by 2100, depending on how sharply the world cuts its carbon emissions. 2021年发表的一篇论文预测，到2100年，威尼斯泻湖的水位将上升32至110厘米，这取决于世界削减碳排放的力度。 What is needed, then, is a plan to extend the system’s life. Dr Tosi is among those who think that seawater could be the answer as well as the problem. They propose to pump seawater underground, and in doing so to raise the land. 因此，我们需要的是一个延长金融体系寿命的计划。托西博士是认为海水既可以解决问题，也可以解决问题的人之一。他们提议将海水泵入地下，这样做是为了提高土地。 That may seem outlandish but, in principle, it is merely the reversal of something that has already happened. Between the 1940s and 1970s the extraction of groundwater for use by industry caused Venice to sink by about 15cm. 这似乎有些奇怪，但从原则上讲，这只不过是对已经发生的事情的逆转。在20世纪40年代到70年代之间，为工业开采地下水导致威尼斯下沉了约15厘米。 Pietro Teatini, a hydraulic engineer at Padua University, points out that there is precedent from the oil-and-gas industry, which has shown that storing gas in underground reservoirs can lift the land above. 帕多瓦大学(Padua University)的水力工程师彼得罗•蒂蒂尼(Pietro Teatini)指出，石油和天然气行业有先例，这些先例表明，在地下储存天然气可以抬高地面。 The area’s geology is promising. Its sandy subsoils should be relatively expandable. Those sandy layers are capped with watertight clay which would prevent injected seawater seeping upwards to contaminate freshwater aquifers. 这个地区的地质条件很好。它的砂质底土应该是相对可膨胀的。这些沙层上覆盖着不透水的粘土，防止注入的海水向上渗透，污染淡水含水层。 Giuseppe Gambolati, a semi-retired hydraulic engineer at Padua University, thinks it should be possible to achieve a rise of 25cm across the entire city within a decade. His proposal calls for drilling three test wells. 帕多瓦大学半退休的液压工程师朱塞佩 · 甘博拉蒂(Giuseppe Gambolati)认为，应该有可能在10年内使整个城市上升25厘米。他的建议要求钻三口试井。 If those reveal no show-stopping problems, then the full job would involve a dozen wells 600 to 800 metres deep around the city. Dr Gambolati reckons the city could be raised for something like 2% of MOSE ’s €5.5bn construction cost. Maintaining the uplift, by continual pumping of water, might cost 5% as much as the flood barrier’s operating expenses. 如果这些都没有显示出任何值得炫耀的问题，那么整个工作将涉及到城市周围600到800米深的十几口井。Gambolati 博士估计，这座城市的建设成本大约可以达到摩斯建筑工程55亿欧元建设成本的2% 。通过持续不断的抽水来维持抬升，可能要花费防洪堤运行费用的5% 。 For now seawater injection remains just an idea. But if something is not done, then the rising waters may eventually force more drastic changes. Dario Camuffo, who studies both the environment and Venice’s cultural heritage at CNR , says one option would be simply to abandon the city’s ground floors. Raised pavements could allow people to enter buildings on the storey above. Another, he says, is that prized structures might be taken apart for reassembly elsewhere. 目前，海水注入仍然只是一个想法。但如果不采取措施，那么上升的水位最终可能迫使更剧烈的变化。在中国北车公司(CNR)研究环境和威尼斯文化遗产的达里奥•卡穆福(Dario Camuffo)表示，一个选择就是放弃城市的底层。加高的人行道可以让人们进入楼上的建筑物。他说，另一个原因是，有价值的建筑物可能会被拆开，在其他地方重新组装。 Mr Redi worries that Venice’s lagoon may need to be permanently cordoned off from the sea with a dyke. For a city proud of its maritime heritage, that might be seen more as a humiliation than an adaptation. ■ 雷迪先生担心，威尼斯的泻湖可能需要用堤坝永久性地与海洋隔开。对于一个为自己的海洋遗产感到自豪的城市来说，这可能更像是一种羞辱，而不是一种适应。￭ Curious about the world? To enjoy our mind-expanding science coverage, sign up to Simply Science , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter. 对世界感到好奇? 为了享受我们开阔视野的科学报道，请注册“简单科学”，我们的每周订阅时事通讯。 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/why-venetians-are-pondering-raising-their-entire-city 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2023/05/24/why-venetians-are-pondering-raising-their-entire-city 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Science & ... 科学..。 Sections 部分 Economic & ... 经济..。 Culture 文化 Art made by artificial intelligence is developing a style of its own 由人工智能创造的艺术正在形成自己的风格 The robotic school :: AI models not only reflect but magnify what they see in the images they are fed 机器人学校: : 人工智能模型不仅反映，而且放大他们看到的图像，他们被喂养 In Javier Marías’s final novel, an agent confronts his conscience 在哈维尔 · 马里亚斯的最后一部小说中，一个经纪人直面自己的良心 Contemplative spy fiction :: The hero of “Tomás Nevinson” is plucked from retirement for a tough final mission 沉思间谍小说: 《托马斯 · 奈文森》的主人公从退休中被挑选出来执行一项艰巨的最终任务 “The Perfection Trap” decries what it calls a “hidden epidemic” “完美陷阱”谴责所谓的“隐性传染病” Social psychology :: Thomas Curran finds some unusual culprits for the scourge of perfectionism 社会心理学: Thomas Curran 发现了完美主义的罪魁祸首 Rome fell. Will the modern-day West follow suit? 罗马帝国灭亡了，现代的西方也会如此吗？ Great-power decline :: “Why Empires Fall” makes a diverting historical comparison, if not a wholly convincing one 大国衰落: 《帝国为何衰落》做了一个有趣的历史比较，如果不是一个完全令人信服的比较的话 As it spreads across the world, who owns English? 随着它传播到世界各地，谁拥有英语？ Johnson :: Or, for that matter, French or Portuguese? 约翰逊: 或者说，法语还是葡萄牙语? ？ August Wilson was and remains a bard of black life in America 奥古斯特 · 威尔逊过去和现在都是美国黑人生活的吟游诗人 American drama :: Plays such as “Fences” and “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom” continue to find new fans on stage and screen 美国戏剧: 《篱笆墙》、《马蕾妮的黑屁股》等戏剧不断在舞台和银幕上找到新的粉丝。 Science & ... 科学..。 Sections 部分 Economic & ... 经济..。

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The robotic school 机器人学校 Art made by artificial intelligence is developing a style of its own 由人工智能创造的艺术正在形成自己的风格 AI models not only reflect but magnify what they see in the images they are fed 人工智能模型不仅反映，而且放大他们看到的图像，他们被喂养 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 F IRST PRIZE in the creative category of this year’s Sony World Photography Awards was presented in April to Boris Eldagsen, who impressed judges with his ethereal, vintage-style portrait of two women in black and white. 今年的索尼世界摄影大奖创意类一等奖于4月颁发给了鲍里斯 · 埃尔达森(Boris Eldagsen)。埃尔达森以他那两位穿着黑白两色的女性优雅复古风格的肖像给评委们留下了深刻印象。 Mr Eldagsen, however, turned down the prize and revealed that his image had been created not by a camera but by artificial intelligence ( AI ). The German artist said he had “applied as a cheeky monkey”, to see if he could fool the panel. 然而，Eldagsen 先生拒绝了这个奖项，并透露他的照片不是由照相机创造的，而是由人工智能(AI)创造的。这位德国艺术家表示，他已经“申请扮演一只厚脸皮的猴子”，看看自己能否骗过评审团。 “Generative” AI models make convincing mimics, whether they are producing vintage portraits or more modern images—like a purported photo of the pope in an improbable Balenciaga puffer jacket, which recently tricked half of Twitter. Yet their ability to produce original work is less clear . “ AI art has so far been exceptionally trivial,” a columnist in the Art Newspaper recently huffed. It is intrinsically derivative, based on the millions of training images that are consumed, digested and regurgitated to order. “Plagiarism is a feature of the AI process,” declared the Writers Guild of America, one of many creative-workers’ unions that sees generative AI models as mere copycats. “生成型”人工智能模型做出了令人信服的模仿，无论它们是在制作老式肖像还是更现代的图像ーー比如一张据称是教皇穿着不可思议的巴黎世家(Balenciaga)羽绒服的照片，该照片最近骗过了半数 Twitter 用户。然而，他们创作原创作品的能力却不那么明显。“迄今为止，人工智能艺术一直是异常琐碎的,”《艺术报》的一位专栏作家最近表示。它本质上是衍生的，基于数以百万计的训练图像被消费，消化和反刍的秩序。“剽窃是人工智能过程的一个特征,”美国编剧工会宣称。许多创意工作者工会都认为，生成性人工智能模型只不过是抄袭。 Perhaps so. Yet there are signs that AI models are developing an artistic style of their own—and not just in drawing hands with more than five digits, as was common in their early output. By identifying and accentuating the patterns they see in their training data , generative models are not so much mirrors of contemporary styles as they are magnifying lenses. Slowly, a robotic school of artwork is emerging. 也许吧。然而，有迹象表明，人工智能模型正在形成自己的艺术风格ーー而不仅仅是像早期产品那样，用五个数字以上的手画手。通过识别和强调他们在训练数据中看到的模式，生成模型与其说是当代风格的镜子，不如说是放大镜。慢慢地，一个机器人学校的艺术品正在出现。 Computers have been making art for some time. Five years ago Christie’s auctioned its first work created by artificial intelligence, “Edmond de Belamy”, a blurry approximation of an 18th-century oil painting. 电脑创造艺术已经有一段时间了。5年前，佳士得(Christie’s)拍卖了其首件人工智能创作的作品《埃德蒙德•德•贝拉米》(Edmond de Belamy) ，这是一幅模糊的近似于18世纪油画的作品。 Despite being unfinished and faintly alien-looking, the novelty fetched $432,500. “It may not have been painted by a man in a powdered wig,” Christie’s said, “but it is exactly the kind of artwork we have been selling for 250 years.” 尽管是未完成的，看起来有点像外星人，这个新奇的东西卖了432,500美元。克里斯蒂拍卖行表示: “这幅画可能不是一个戴着假发的男人画的，但它确实是我们250年来一直在销售的那种艺术品。” Technology has since come far. Open platforms such as Midjourney and DALL-E generate images in seconds based on simple written prompts. No artistic skill is required, though there is a knack to getting good results. “The image I produce isn’t my work. My work is the prompt,” says Nick St Pierre, a designer in New York who got into AI last year when he saw it coming for his job. The image above, which he made using Midjourney, took hundreds of iterations, ending up with this prompt: 自那以后，科技已经取得了长足的进步。Midjourney 和 DALL-e 等开放平台基于简单的书面提示，可以在几秒钟内生成图像。不需要任何艺术技巧，尽管有获得好结果的诀窍。“我创造的形象不是我的作品。纽约设计师尼克•圣皮埃尔(Nick St Pierre)表示: “我的工作是一种激励。”去年，当他看到人工智能正在向自己的工作靠拢时，他进入了人工智能领域。上面的图片是他用 Midjourney 制作的，经过数百次反复，最后得到了这样一个提示: 35mm, 1990s action film still, close-up of a bearded man browsing for bottles inside a liquor store. WATCH OUT BEHIND YOU!!! 35毫米，上世纪90年代的动作片特写镜头，一个大胡子男人在一家酒类商店里挑瓶子。小心身后! ! ！ (background action occurs)…a white benz truck crashes through a store window, exploding into the background…broken glass flies everywhere, flaming debris sparkles light the neon night, 90s CGI , gritty realism (背景动作发生) ... 一辆白色的奔驰卡车撞破了商店的橱窗，爆炸成为背景... 碎玻璃到处飞，燃烧的碎片闪烁着霓虹灯的夜晚，90年代的 CGI，坚韧的现实主义 The ability to order any image in any style, from action movies of the 1990s to papal paparazzi shots, seems incompatible with the idea of a distinctive AI look. Yet certain traits seem to predominate. One is nostalgia. The ability of AI models to recreate the styles they have been fed makes them adept at simulating the look of old media, or sometimes recreating past events in modern guise. 从上世纪90年代的动作片到教皇的狗仔队照片，任何风格的图像都可以订购，这似乎与独特的人工智能外观理念格格不入。然而，某些特征似乎占主导地位。一个是怀旧。人工智能模型能够重新创建它们所接受的样式，这使得它们擅长模拟旧媒体的外观，或者有时以现代伪装重新创建过去的事件。 One recent viral series imagined modern-day selfies taken in pre-modern times, with Vikings or cavemen grinning for the camera. 最近的一个病毒式的系列想象在前现代时期拍摄的现代自拍照，维京人或山顶洞人对着镜头露齿而笑。 As in previous eras of art, the prevailing subject matter is determined by whoever commissions the work. 和以前的艺术时代一样，流行的主题是由委托作品的人决定的。 Western galleries groan with pictures of rich white men and their property, not because they looked good in oil paint but because these were the themes dearest to the hearts of patrons. Midjourney’s output is big on anime warrior princesses for the same reason. 西方画廊里满是富有的白人男子和他们的财产的照片，这并不是因为它们在油画中看起来很好，而是因为这些是顾客心中最珍视的主题。出于同样的原因，Midjourney 的动漫产品在动漫武士公主方面表现突出。 AI models seem to favour particular techniques, too. Examining images produced by Midjourney earlier this year, Roland Meyer, a researcher at Ruhr University Bochum in Germany, noticed a common look. Many would “shine and sparkle, as if illuminated from within”. 人工智能模型似乎也偏爱特定的技术。今年早些时候，德国波鸿大学研究所的研究员罗兰•迈耶(Roland Meyer)通过研究 Midtrip 公司生产的图像，发现了一个普遍的现象。许多人会“闪闪发光，仿佛从内部被照亮”。 They combined this distinctive lighting with a colour palette that contrasted warm earthy tones with blue or green metallic ones. 他们结合了这种独特的照明与色彩调色板，对比温暖的泥土色调与蓝色或绿色金属的。 Many also displayed what photographers call “high dynamic range”, meaning a wide variation in light levels within the image, with pools of deep shadow and other areas brightly lit. 许多照片还展示了摄影师所说的“高动态范围”，即照片中光线水平的广泛变化，有深色阴影和其他明亮区域。 These traits are not coincidental. Mr Meyer attributes the distinctive “glow” to the way AI models handle lighting. Rather than using digital art techniques such as ray tracing, in which a computer calculates how light will fall on an object from a particular angle, AI imagines how things will look based on the images in its training data, which have been illuminated from many different angles. For this reason, even photo-realistic AI images seem to be lit in a way more akin to painting than to naturalistic photography, Mr Meyer says. 这些特征并非巧合。Meyer 先生将这种独特的“发光”归功于人工智能模型处理照明的方式。人工智能没有使用射线追踪等数字艺术技术(计算机计算光线如何从特定角度照射到物体上) ，而是根据其训练数据中的图像来想象物体的外观，这些图像已经从许多不同角度照射到物体上。出于这个原因，即使照片逼真的人工智能图像似乎在某种程度上更接近于绘画，而不是自然主义摄影，迈耶先生说。 Painting by numbers 数字绘画 The favoured colour schemes, meanwhile, often pair teal or turquoise with orange or magenta. That reflects a taste popularised on Instagram and from there across the internet, which is likely to have been well-represented in training data. 与此同时，人们青睐的颜色搭配常常是青绿色或绿松石色与橙色或品红色。这反映了一种在 Instagram 和互联网上流行起来的品味，这种品味很可能在培训数据中得到了很好的体现。 (High dynamic range has been made similarly ubiquitous online by modern smartphone cameras, which produce such effects by taking several images at different exposures and stitching them together.) (高动态范围已经被现代智能手机摄像头在网上同样普及，它通过在不同的曝光下拍摄几张照片并将它们缝合在一起来产生这样的效果。) With updates to AI models come changes to their oeuvre. David Holz, the founder and boss of Midjourney, rejects the idea that there is a single AI style. The latest version of the program, released in March, has reined in some of the tendencies of the previous one, he says. “The look of our images has radically changed five times now over the past 12 months and will continue to do so for quite some time,” Mr Holtz insists. 随着人工智能模型的更新，他们的全部作品也发生了变化。Midjourney 创始人兼老板大卫•霍尔兹(davidholz)否认存在单一的人工智能风格。他说，三月份发布的最新版本已经抑制了前一版本的某些倾向。“在过去的12个月里，我们的照片的外观已经发生了5次根本性的变化，而且这种变化还将持续相当长的一段时间,”霍尔茨先生坚持说。 “People want diversity.” “人们想要多样性。” As the models evolve and improve, they will remain reliant on man-made training data. “No collection is ever neutral,” says James Coupe, head of photography at the Royal College of Art in London, where he is setting up an AI lab. “Image archives are indexes of a society’s changing ideological investments and political commitments.” And whatever the training data, “we are going to end up with a style that is a kind of lowest common denominator of art.” He compares AI -generated images to a project in the 1990s by a pair of Russian conceptual artists, Vitaly Komar and Alexander Melamid. They surveyed public tastes in 14 countries and produced artworks based on the results. Nearly everyone went for banal 19th-century-style landscapes. 随着模型的发展和改进，它们仍将依赖于人造的训练数据。伦敦皇家艺术学院(Royal College of Art)摄影负责人詹姆斯•库佩(James Coupe)表示: “没有哪个收藏品是中立的。”库佩正在伦敦建立一个人工智能实验室。“形象档案是一个社会不断变化的意识形态投资和政治承诺的指标。”无论培训数据如何，“我们最终都会形成一种类似于艺术最小公分母的风格。”他将人工智能生成的图像与上世纪90年代两位俄罗斯概念艺术家维塔利•科马尔(Vitaly Komar)和亚历山大•梅拉米德(Alexander Melamid)的一个项目进行了比较。他们调查了14个国家的公众品味，并根据调查结果制作了艺术品。几乎每个人都喜欢19世纪平淡无奇的风景画。 By identifying and condensing prevailing styles in their training data, generative- AI models are playing a similar role. Mr Meyer thinks their ability to summarise visual styles or eras could make them powerful tools of analysis for art historians. Both their weakness and their strength is that, as he puts it, they are “cliché detectors”. ■ 通过在训练数据中识别和浓缩流行的风格，生成性人工智能模型正在发挥类似的作用。Meyer 先生认为他们总结视觉风格或时代的能力可以使他们成为艺术历史学家分析的强大工具。他们的弱点和优点都在于，用他的话说，他们是“陈词滥调的探测器”。￭ For more on the latest books, films, TV shows, albums and controversies, sign up to Plot Twist , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter 更多关于最新的书籍，电影，电视节目，专辑和争议，注册到情节扭曲，我们的每周订阅者唯一的时事通讯 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/24/art-made-by-artificial-intelligence-is-developing-a-style-of-its-own 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/24/art-made-by-artificial-intelligence-is-developing-a-style-of-its-own 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Contemplative spy fiction 沉思间谍小说 In Javier Marías’s final novel, an agent confronts his conscience 在哈维尔 · 马里亚斯的最后一部小说中，一个经纪人直面自己的良心 The hero of “Tomás Nevinson” is plucked from retirement for a tough final mission 《托马斯 · 奈文森》的主人公从退休中被挑选出来执行一项艰巨的最后任务 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 Tomás Nevinson. By Javier Marías. Translated by Margaret Jull Costa. Knopf; 656 pages; $32.50. Hamish Hamilton; £22.00 托马斯 · 内文森(Tomás Nevinson)著，哈维尔 · 马里亚斯(Javier Marías)著，玛格丽特 · 朱尔 · 科斯塔(Margaret Jull Costa)译，克诺夫出版社，656页，32.50美元，哈米什 · 汉密尔顿(Hamish Hamilton)出版社，22.00美元 W HEN JAVIER MARÍAS died last September at the age of 70, he left a richly beguiling, stylistically bold and, above all, original body of work. Whether exploring academic life, marriage or the murky world of espionage , the Spanish author’s novels, written over five decades, blend intellectual inquiry with playful and artful high jinks. 当哈维尔 · 马里亚斯于去年九月去世，享年70岁时，他留下了一部富有诱惑力、风格大胆、最重要的是原创性的作品。无论是探索学术生活，婚姻还是黑暗的间谍世界，这位西班牙作家的小说，写了50多年，融合了智力探索与顽皮和艺术的狂欢。 Marías’s final book revisits characters and themes from his penultimate one, “Berta Isla” (published in 2017). He saw “Tomás Nevinson” as a “companion piece” to its predecessor—but it is a better novel. The eponymous hero comes fully alive as he navigates shadowy machinations and ethical quandaries. 马里亚斯的最后一本书重温了倒数第二本书《贝尔塔岛》(Berta Isla，2017年出版)中的人物和主题。他把《托马斯 · 奈文森》看作是前作的“伴侣作品”ーー但它是一部更好的小说。这位与他同名的英雄在阴谋诡计和道德困境中生龙活虎。 Tomás Nevinson’s days in the British Secret Service are over. Back in his home town of Madrid, the half-English, half-Spanish former spy is trying to rebuild his family life after years of “enforced exile”. 托马斯 · 奈文森在英国特勤局的日子结束了。回到家乡马德里，这位半英半西的前间谍正试图在多年“被迫流亡”后重建家庭生活。 But when his old handler and manipulator, Bertram Tupra, tracks him down and tempts him with one last assignment, Tomás is roused from retirement, reactivated and once again obliged to “dovetail lies and false identities”. 但是，当他的老上司和操纵者伯特伦 · 图普拉(Bertram Tupra)找到他，并用最后一个任务诱惑他时，托马斯从退休中醒来，重新被激活，再次被迫“接合谎言和假身份”。 His mission requires him to go undercover in north-west Spain and find out which of three women is a terrorist with ETA , a Basque separatist group, who is now lying low after taking part in bombings in Barcelona and Zaragoza. 他的任务要求他去西班牙西北部卧底，找出三个女人中哪一个是巴斯克分离主义组织埃塔(ETA)的恐怖分子。埃塔在参与巴塞罗那和萨拉戈萨的爆炸案后，目前正在低调行事。 Posing as a teacher of English, Tomás embarks on a charm offensive, befriending the women—a fellow schoolteacher, a restaurant owner and a trapped wife—and forging more intimate relations with one of them. 托马斯假扮成一名英语教师，展开了一场魅力攻势，与这些女性——一名教师同事、一名餐馆老板和一名陷入困境的妻子——成为朋友，并与其中一名女性建立了更亲密的关系。 He watches their movements and reactions, all the while looking for clues that might betray a hidden identity and a role in past crimes. 他观察他们的行动和反应，同时寻找可能暴露隐藏身份和过去犯罪角色的线索。 But then Tupra, impatient for results, changes the rules. If Tomás cannot unmask and dispatch the terrorist, then all three women will have to die. Can he find the culprit in time—and will he have the unscrupulous courage to carry out his “blood mission”? 但随后，急于求成的 Tupra 改变了规则。如果托马斯不能揭露并消灭恐怖分子那三个女人都得死。他能否及时找到罪魁祸首，以及他是否有勇气去完成他的“血之使命”？ Those who prefer their espionage thrillers lean and taut may be put off by this hulking tome. But like the stories in Marías’s bravura trilogy, “Your Face Tomorrow” , “Tomás Nevinson” is a different kind of spy novel. It unfolds in meandering yet mesmerising sentences. Some describe scenes, others contribute to free-flowing monologues or digressive meditations. 那些喜欢他们的间谍惊悚小说的人可能会被这本笨重的大部头吓跑。但就像 Marías 大胆三部曲《明日你的脸》(Your Face Tomorrow)中的故事一样，《托马斯•内文森》(Tomás Nevinson)是一部与众不同的间谍小说。它以蜿蜒而迷人的句子展开。一些描述场景，另一些有助于自由流畅的独白或离题的沉思。 The author’s other trademark tropes, from literary allusions to historical references and philosophical debates, all feature. 作者的其他商标比喻，从文学典故到历史参考和哲学辩论，所有的特点。 Occasionally the narrative is weighed down by ponderous musings on topics such as hatred, justice and killing for the greater good. 有时，对于仇恨、正义和为了更大的利益而杀戮等话题的沉闷思考会拖累叙事。 But it is never long before readers are again enthralled by Marías’s high-stakes plot, his protagonist’s tangled web of deceit and the sharp scrutiny of guilt, doubt, betrayal and memory. 但是没过多久，读者们就再次被马里亚斯高风险的情节、他笔下主人公错综复杂的欺骗网络以及对内疚、怀疑、背叛和记忆的尖锐审视所吸引。 Now seamlessly translated by Margaret Jull Costa, this final work is a stimulating drama by a master of his craft. ■ 现在由玛格丽特 · 朱尔 · 科斯塔无缝翻译，这最后的工作是一个激动人心的戏剧大师的手艺。￭ For more on the latest books, films, TV shows, albums and controversies, sign up to Plot Twist , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter 更多关于最新的书籍，电影，电视节目，专辑和争议，注册到情节扭曲，我们的每周订阅者唯一的时事通讯 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/in-javier-mariass-final-novel-an-agent-confronts-his-conscience 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/in-javier-mariass-final-novel-an-agent-confronts-his-conscience 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Social psychology 社会心理学 “The Perfection Trap” decries what it calls a “hidden epidemic” “完美陷阱”谴责所谓的“隐性传染病” Thomas Curran finds some unusual culprits for the scourge of perfectionism Thomas Curran 发现了完美主义的罪魁祸首 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 The Perfection Trap. By Thomas Curran. Cornerstone Press; 304 pages; £22. To be published in America by Scribner in August; $28 完美陷阱。作者: Thomas Curran。基石出版社; 304页; 22。将于八月由 Scribner 出版社在美国出版，售价28美元 I N NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE’S short story “The Birth-Mark”, a chemist called Aylmer marries a young woman, Georgiana, whose sole imperfection is a red blemish on her left cheek. He considers it a “fatal flaw”; she pleads with him to use his skills to remove it. 在纳撒尼尔·霍桑的短篇小说《胎记》中，一位名叫艾尔默的化学家娶了一位名叫乔治亚娜的年轻女子，她唯一的缺陷就是左脸颊上的一个红斑。他认为这是一个“致命的缺陷”; 她恳求他利用他的技能来消除它。 Stumbling on his journal, however, Georgiana is astonished to find it is a catalogue of scientific mishaps. Might his loathing of her birthmark stem from his professional disappointment? At length Aylmer concocts a potion that has the desired effect—and promptly kills her. 然而，偶然发现他的日记，乔治亚娜惊讶地发现它是一个科学灾难的目录。他对她胎记的厌恶可能源于他对工作的失望吗？最后，艾尔默配制了一种药剂，达到了预期的效果，并迅速杀死了她。 Hawthorne’s 180-year-old tale illustrates the perils of perfectionism . It is Thomas Curran’s starting-point for a study of what he calls a “hidden epidemic”. He thinks the obsessive pursuit of ever higher standards, rather than propelling achievement, is mainly a scourge. 霍桑180年的故事说明了完美主义的危险。这是 Thomas Curran 研究他所谓的“隐性流行病”的起点。他认为，过分追求更高的标准，而不是推动成就，主要是一种灾难。 A social psychologist at the London School of Economics, he describes himself as “a recovering perfectionist”. 作为伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)的社会心理学家，他形容自己是“一个正在恢复的完美主义者”。 Drawing on both academic research and his own experiences of “deficit thinking”, he makes a vigorous case, albeit one occasionally marked by cliché (he sees his younger self as a “chin-stroking, cardigan-wearing intellectual”). 利用学术研究和自己的“赤字思维”经验，他提出了一个强有力的理由，尽管这个理由有时带有陈词滥调的特点(他认为年轻时的自己是一个“摸着下巴、穿着羊毛衫的知识分子”)。 Mr Curran distinguishes between three sorts of perfectionism. The first, which looks inward, is the relentless self-scolding of the workaholic or punctilious student. A second version, directed towards others, is commonly found in bosses who have unrealistic expectations of their staff and decry their supposed failings (he cites Steve Jobs as an example). The third and most troublesome kind is the form imputed to society: “an all-encompassing belief that everybody, at all times, expects us to be perfect”. Its victims tend to feel lonely; often they harm themselves and harbour thoughts of suicide. Curran 先生区分了三种完美主义。第一个是内省，是对工作狂或一丝不苟的学生无情的自责。第二个版本是针对其他人的，通常发生在对员工抱有不切实际的期望并谴责他们所谓的失败的老板身上(他以史蒂夫•乔布斯(Steve Jobs)为例)。第三种，也是最麻烦的一种是归咎于社会的形式: “一种包罗万象的信念，每个人，在任何时候，都希望我们是完美的”。它的受害者往往感到孤独; 他们往往伤害自己，并怀有自杀的念头。 Having noted the ways in which this pathology inflames vulnerabilities and erodes resilience, Mr Curran suggests some causes. 柯伦先生注意到了这种病理是如何加剧脆弱性并侵蚀复原力的，他提出了一些原因。 These include a lack of job security, neurotic supervision by helicopter parents and the gaudy blandishments of advertising, which fuel consumption and anxiety. 这些问题包括缺乏工作保障、直升机父母神经质的监督以及花哨的广告诱惑，这些都加剧了消费和焦虑。 “The very fabric of this economy”, he claims, “is woven from our discontent.” Inevitably he blames social media, which inundate users with images of finely sculpted bodies, flawless outfits, ambrosial holidays and exquisite weddings. 他声称: “这个经济体的结构就是由我们的不满编织而成的。”他不可避免地将此归咎于社交媒体，这些媒体上充斥着精心雕琢的身体、完美的服装、奢华的节日和精致的婚礼的图片。 A less familiar culprit is Don Hamachek, an American psychologist, who in the 1970s coined the term “normal perfectionism”, thereby legitimising morbid self-criticism, says Mr Curran. He even reproaches Barack Obama for enjoining young people to learn from their mistakes. 柯伦先生说，一个不太为人熟知的罪魁祸首是美国心理学家唐 · 哈马切克(Don Hamachek) ，他在20世纪70年代创造了“正常完美主义”这个术语，从而使病态的自我批评合法化。他甚至指责巴拉克•奥巴马(Barack Obama)要求年轻人从错误中吸取教训。 Instead, he says, failures should be “allowed to simply wash through us as a joyous reminder of what it means to be a fallible human”. 相反，他说，应该“让失败简单地洗刷我们，作为一个快乐的提醒，提醒我们作为一个易犯错误的人意味着什么”。 The author’s greatest odium, though, is directed at meritocracy. In this he draws on the thinking of Michael Sandel, a philosopher at Harvard. Especially in “The Tyranny of Merit” (published in 2020), Professor Sandel has argued that using education as a giant sorting machine creates a toxic obsession with credentials, dividing society into winners and losers and depleting the common good. 不过，作者最大的不满是针对精英管理。在这方面，他借鉴了哈佛大学哲学家迈克尔•桑德尔(MichaelSandel)的思想。特别是在2020年出版的《功绩的暴政》(The Tyranny of Merit)一书中，桑德尔教授认为，把教育当作一台巨大的分类机器，会造成对学历的痴迷，将社会分为赢家和输家，并且会损害公共利益。 Like other critics of meritocracy, Mr Curran has a point—until you consider the alternatives. 像其他批评精英制度的人一样，柯伦先生说得有道理ーー除非你考虑其他选择。 Daily life, in his view, now resembles an endless tribunal. Young people suffer most from the constant scrutiny of scores and rankings. 在他看来，现在的日常生活就像是一场无休止的审判。年轻人最容易受到成绩和排名的不断审查。 Decrying a fixation on economic growth, he applauds countries, such as Bhutan and New Zealand, where decision-makers take account of citizens’ happiness. Mr Curran’s preferred fix is a universal basic income, which he says would “extinguish the fire of perfectionism”. 他谴责对经济增长的执着，称赞像不丹和新西兰这样的国家，这些国家的决策者考虑到了公民的幸福。柯伦先生更喜欢的解决办法是普及基本收入，他说这将“熄灭完美主义的火焰”。 Whatever its economic merits, his argument errs in treating perfectionism as a purely cultural phenomenon. Might it not also be a disposition embedded in the psyche? Tellingly, his guidance—“Keep going. 无论其经济价值如何，他的论点都错误地将完美主义视为一种纯粹的文化现象。这难道不是一种植根于心灵的倾向吗？很明显，他的指导是: “继续前进。 Do not yield”; “Keep practising that acceptance of fortune and fate”—is couched in the language of the perfectionist’s round-the-clock report card. ■ “不要屈服”; “坚持练习接受命运和命运”ーー用完美主义者24小时不间断的成绩单的语言表达。￭ For more on the latest books, films, TV shows, albums and controversies, sign up to Plot Twist , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter 更多关于最新的书籍，电影，电视节目，专辑和争议，注册到情节扭曲，我们的每周订阅者唯一的时事通讯 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/the-perfection-trap-decries-what-it-calls-a-hidden-epidemic 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/the-perfection-trap-decries-what-it-calls-a-hidden-epidemic 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Great-power decline 大国衰落 Rome fell. Will the modern-day West follow suit? 罗马帝国灭亡了，现代的西方也会如此吗？ “Why Empires Fall” makes a diverting historical comparison, if not a wholly convincing one “帝国为什么会衰落”做了一个有趣的历史比较，如果不是一个完全令人信服的比较 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 Why Empires Fall . By John Rapley and Peter Heather. Yale University Press; 200 pages; $27. Allen Lane; £20 《为什么帝国会衰落》 ，约翰•拉普利和彼得•希瑟著，耶鲁大学出版社200页，27美元，艾伦•莱恩出版社出版，20美元 D ECLINISM IS IN fashion again. As relations between America and China worsen, studying the ends of earlier ages of hegemony becomes more popular. Books predicting the unstoppable rise of autocratic strongmen and the death of democracy proliferate. There is much talk of the “Thucydides trap ”: the inevitability of a clash between a rising power and an established one, as Athens challenged Sparta in the fifth century BC . 衰退主义再次流行起来。随着中美关系的恶化，研究早期霸权时代的终结变得越来越流行。预言独裁统治者势不可挡的崛起和民主政体灭亡的书籍层出不穷。有很多关于“修昔底德陷阱”的讨论: 当雅典在前5世纪挑战斯巴达时，一个新兴大国和一个老牌大国之间不可避免地会发生冲突。 This provocative short book adapts this approach with a novel twist. It draws a comparison between the West in 1999, the zenith of its confidence, and Rome exactly 1,600 years earlier, in 399—just decades before the empire’s collapse. 这本具有煽动性的短篇小说以一种新颖的方式改编了这种方法。它将1999年西方世界的信心巅峰与1600年前的399年罗马帝国的崩溃前几十年进行了对比。 The most interesting part of the story concerns Rome . John Rapley, a political economist, and Peter Heather, a historian, dissent from the analysis familiar since Edward Gibbon of an empire in gradual decline almost from its inception under Augustus. Rome, they argue, was as strong as ever at the turn of the fifth century AD . An admittedly extensive and sometimes rickety empire was held together mainly by co-opting talented outsiders, devolving extensive power to strong commanders and doing deals with potential enemies. 故事中最有趣的部分是关于罗马的。政治经济学家约翰•拉普利(John Rapley)和历史学家彼得•希瑟(Peter Heather)不同意自爱德华•吉本(Edward Gibbon)以来人们所熟悉的分析，即一个帝国几乎从奥古斯都(Augustus)时期开始就在逐渐衰落。他们认为，罗马在公元5世纪之交一如既往地强大。不可否认，一个庞大而有时摇摇欲坠的帝国主要是通过吸收有才华的外来者、将广泛的权力下放给强大的指挥官以及与潜在敌人做交易才得以维系起来的。 Yet within a decade Rome had pulled its legions out of Britain (the authors dub this withdrawal the first Brexit ). Less than a century later, the last western emperor, Romulus Augustulus, was gone. 然而，不到十年，罗马就从英国撤出了大批军队(作者称这次撤军为第一次英国退欧)。不到一个世纪之后，西方最后一位皇帝——罗慕路斯·奥古斯都——也走了。 What went wrong? The book dwells on foreign forces that became ever harder to resist. At the empire’s weakening periphery, local bigwigs began throwing in their lot with Goths , Ostrogoths, Visigoths, Huns, Vandals and the rest. The sister of one emperor even married a Visigoth leader (apparently voluntarily) and produced a son with serious imperial claims. As Gibbon laboured to explain 250 years ago, the eastern empire based in Constantinople continued for almost another millennium. 出了什么问题？这本书详述了越来越难以抗拒的外国势力。在帝国日渐衰弱的边缘地带，当地的大人物开始与哥特人、东哥特人、西哥特人、匈奴人、汪达尔人和其他人为伍。一位皇帝的妹妹甚至嫁给了一位西哥特领导人(显然是自愿的) ，并生下了一个有着严重帝国主义要求的儿子。正如吉本在250年前努力解释的那样，以君士坦丁堡为基地的东方帝国又延续了近一千年。 But it, too, was weakening and steadily losing territory, initially through costly wars against Persia and later with the rise of Islam and the Ottomans . 但它也在日渐衰弱，并逐渐丧失领土，最初是通过对波斯的代价高昂的战争，后来是随着伊斯兰教和奥斯曼帝国的崛起。 Over the centuries western Europe recovered, first under Charlemagne and later even more spectacularly when it spread its power (and its own empires) across most of the known world. 经过几个世纪的恢复，西欧首先在查理曼大帝的统治下复苏，后来更为引人注目的是，它将自己的权力(以及自己的帝国)扩展到了大多数已知的世界。 The question the authors pose is whether, despite its apparent dominance as recently as the turn of the 21st century, the West is now inexorably heading in the same direction as Rome in the fifth. 两位作者提出的问题是，尽管在21世纪之交，西方世界表面上占据主导地位，但它们现在是否正不可阻挡地朝着与罗马在第五世纪相同的方向前进。 They point to such issues as rising debt burdens, costly welfare states, depressed productivity growth, demographic decline and mass immigration. 他们指出，这些问题包括债务负担不断增加、福利国家成本高昂、生产率增长低迷、人口下降和大规模移民。 They see big challenges to the West from the growth of Asia, particularly China and India, and also from anti-Western powers such as Russia and the rise of Africa. 他们认为，亚洲的发展，特别是中国和印度的发展，以及俄罗斯等反西方大国和非洲的崛起，对西方构成了巨大挑战。 Yet the analogy with Rome’s decline and fall is ultimately unconvincing. The rest of the world is certainly catching up with the West, both economically and demographically. China’s economy may soon be bigger than America’s. 然而，将其与罗马帝国的衰落相提并论，最终是不能令人信服的。世界其他地区无疑正在经济和人口方面赶上西方。中国的经济规模可能很快就会超过美国。 Europe accounted for a quarter of the global population in 1914, but has less than a tenth today. Immigration, especially from Africa and Latin America, is politically testing. Populism is on the march. 1914年，欧洲人口占全球总人口的四分之一，但如今只有不到十分之一。移民，尤其是来自非洲和拉丁美洲的移民，正在经受政治考验。民粹主义正在发展。 All the same, on a global scale it is hard to envisage a serious military rival to the clout of the United States and its European allies. Russia is revanchist in Ukraine , but it is also in long-term decline. China is brittle and its growth is slowing sharply. India is politically rancorous. The West’s grip on the best technology and research is firm. 尽管如此，在全球范围内，很难想象会有一个与美国及其欧洲盟友的影响力相当的军事对手。俄罗斯在乌克兰是复仇主义者，但它也处于长期衰落之中。中国经济脆弱，增长急剧放缓。印度在政治上充满敌意。西方对最好的技术和研究的控制是坚定的。 And though Europe’s economic prospects may be cloudy, American productivity leaves most competitors in the dust. 尽管欧洲的经济前景可能不明朗，但美国的生产率却让大多数竞争对手望尘莫及。 Declinists like to cite George Bernard Shaw, whose dictum on the transience of great powers jokily invoked an English village: “Rome fell. Babylon fell. Hindhead’s turn will come.” It is tempting to think that way. 衰落主义者喜欢引用萧伯纳，他们关于大国短暂性的格言开玩笑地引用了一个英国村庄: “罗马陷落了。巴比伦沦陷了。迟早会轮到后脑勺的。”这样想是很诱人的。 But for now, at least, it is not obvious when, if ever, the West will follow suit. ■ 但至少就目前而言，还不清楚西方国家何时会效仿(如果有的话)。 ￭ For more on the latest books, films, TV shows, albums and controversies, sign up to Plot Twist , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter 更多关于最新的书籍，电影，电视节目，专辑和争议，注册到情节扭曲，我们的每周订阅者唯一的时事通讯 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/rome-fell-will-the-modern-day-west-follow-suit 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/rome-fell-will-the-modern-day-west-follow-suit 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Johnson 约翰逊 As it spreads across the world, who owns English? 随着它传播到世界各地，谁拥有英语？ Or, for that matter, French or Portuguese? 或者说，法国人还是葡萄牙人？ May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 W HAT COUNTRY does French belong to? The answer seems obvious: France, as it says on the label. But there are roughly four times as many speakers of French outside France as there are within it. Who does Portuguese belong to? 法国属于哪个国家？答案似乎显而易见: 正如标签上所写的那样，是法国。但是法国境外讲法语的人数大约是法国境内讲法语人数的四倍。葡萄牙人是谁的？ You might now hesitate to blurt out “Portugal”, remembering that Brazil’s population is about 20 times bigger than Portugal’s. Maybe Portuguese belongs jointly to them both. But then 70m people live in African countries in which Portuguese is an official language. Perhaps it belongs to them, too. 你现在可能会犹豫要不要脱口而出“葡萄牙”，要知道巴西的人口是葡萄牙的20倍左右。也许葡萄牙语同时属于他们两个。但是，有7000万人生活在葡萄牙语为官方语言的非洲国家。也许它也属于他们。 The English can be under no illusion that the language of the same name is exclusively theirs. The small matters of the other nations in the British Isles, and of the superpower across the Atlantic, make clear that it is joint property. 英国人不会幻想同一个名字的语言只属于他们自己。不列颠群岛的其他国家和大西洋彼岸的超级大国的小事情清楚地表明，这是共同财产。 But these countries—along with Canada, Australia and other Anglophone peoples—must at some point come to terms with the fact that, even collectively, their language no longer belongs to them. 但是，这些国家ーー以及加拿大、澳大利亚和其他讲英语的国家ーー必须在某个时候接受这样一个事实: 即使是整体而言，他们的语言也不再属于他们。 Of the estimated billion people who speak English, less than half live in those core English-speaking countries. 在说英语的大约十亿人口中，只有不到一半生活在核心的英语国家。 Every day, the proportion of English-speakers born outside the traditional Anglosphere grows. Perhaps 40% of people in the European Union speak English , or about 180m—vastly more than the combined population of Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. In India, calculations range from 60m to 200m. Most such estimates make it the second-biggest Anglophone country in the world. 每天，出生在传统英语圈以外的英语使用者的比例都在增长。欧盟(EU)大约有40% 的人会说英语，约为1.8亿人，远远超过英国、加拿大、澳大利亚和新西兰的总人口。在印度，计算范围从6000万到2亿不等。大多数这样的估计使它成为世界上第二大讲英语的国家。 English-speakers pride themselves on the spread of the language , and often attribute that to an open, liberal-minded attitude whereby it has happily soaked up words from around the world. In the coming century, though, English will do more than borrow words. 说英语的人为这种语言的传播感到自豪，他们常常把这归功于一种开放、自由的态度，因为这种态度让英语快乐地吸收了来自世界各地的词汇。然而，在下一个世纪，英语将不仅仅是借用单词。 In these non-Anglophone countries, it is becoming not just a useful second language, but a native one. 在这些非英语国家，它不仅成为一种有用的第二语言，而且成为一种母语。 Already it is easy to find children in northern Europe who speak as though they come from Kansas, the product of childhoods immersed in subtitled films and television in English, along with music, gaming and YouTube. 我们已经很容易在北欧找到这样的孩子，他们说起话来好像来自堪萨斯州，这是他们沉浸在带字幕的英语电影和电视，以及音乐、游戏和 YouTube 中的童年时代的产物。 Today, many learners still aim for an American or British standard. 今天，许多学习者仍然以美国或英国的标准为目标。 Textbooks instruct Indian English-speakers to avoid Indianisms such as “What is your good name?” for “What is your first name?”, or “I am working here for years” instead of “I have been working here for years.” A guide to avoiding Europeanisms has long circulated in European Union institutions, to keep French- or German-speakers from (for example) using “actual” to mean “current”, as it does in their languages. 教科书指导说英语的印度人避免使用“你的好名字是什么?”“你叫什么名字?”或者“我已经在这里工作很多年了”，而不是“我已经在这里工作很多年了”避免使用欧洲词汇的指南在欧盟机构中流传已久，以防止说法语或德语的人像他们的语言那样使用“实际的”来表示“当前的”。 Yet as hundreds of millions of new speakers make English their own, they are going to be less keen to sound British or American. 然而，随着数以亿计的新人将英语变成自己的语言，他们将不再那么热衷于听起来像英国人或美国人。 A generation of post-colonial novelists has been mixing native words and phrasings into their English prose, without translation, italics or explanation. Academic movements such as “English as a lingua franca” ( ELF ) have been developing the ideology that speakers—no longer referred to as “non-native” but rather “multilingual”—should feel free to ignore British or American norms. Karen Bennett of Nova University in Lisbon says the university website has been translated using words common in southern European English—like “scientific” for “academic”, or “rector” for “vice-chancellor”. 一代后殖民时代的小说家一直在将本土词汇和短语混合到他们的英语散文中，没有翻译、斜体字或解释。“英语作为通用语言”(ELF)等学术运动一直在发展这样一种意识形态: 说英语的人(不再被称为“非母语人士”，而是“多语种人士”)应该可以随意无视英国或美国的规范。里斯本新星大学(Nova University)的卡伦•贝内特(Karen Bennett)表示，该大学的网站被翻译成了南欧英语中常见的词汇，比如“学术”的“科学”，或“副校长”的“校长”。 The appropriate local dialect is not British or American but ELF . 适当的当地方言不是英国或美国，而是 ELF。 Given enough time, new generations of native speakers contribute not just words but their own grammar to the language they learn—from older speakers’ point of view, distorting it in the process. 如果有足够的时间，新一代的母语使用者不仅会为他们所学的语言贡献词汇，还会贡献他们自己的语法ーー从老一辈使用者的角度来看，这个过程会扭曲语言。 “I am working here for years” is a mistake today, but it is not hard to imagine it becoming standard in the future in culturally confident Anglophone Indian circles. 如今，“我在这里工作了很多年”是一个错误，但不难想象，在以英语为母语、文化自信的印度人圈子里，这种说法将来会成为标准说法。 If this disturbs you, remember that this column is written in a mangled version of Anglo-Saxon, learned badly by waves of Celts, Vikings, Normans and others until it became an unrecognisably different tongue. 如果这让你感到困扰，请记住，这篇专栏文章是用一种混乱的盎格鲁-撒克逊语写成的，被一波波的凯尔特人、维京人、诺曼人和其他人糟糕地学会了，直到它变成了一种难以辨认的不同语言。 And take comfort in the fact that such changes usually happen too slowly to affect comprehension in a single lifetime. Written language is less volatile than the spoken kind and exerts a stabilising force. 让我们感到欣慰的是，这些变化通常发生得太慢，不会在一生中影响我们的理解。书面语言不像口头语言那样易变，而且能起到稳定作用。 But if language is always evolving (true to the point of cliché), the adaptations are even more profound when they come as a result of new speakers hailing from different linguistic worlds. No language has ever reached more speakers than English. 但是，如果语言总是在进化(这是老生常谈的观点) ，那么当来自不同语言世界的新的使用者出现时，这种适应就更加深刻。说英语的人最多。 It is hard to predict how they will change it, but easy to rule out the notion that they will not change it at all. In the end, it will be theirs too. ■ 很难预测他们将如何改变它，但很容易排除他们根本不会改变它的概念。最终，它也会是他们的。￭ Read more from Johnson, our columnist on language: 阅读更多来自我们的语言专栏作家约翰逊的文章: The hazards of pronouncing foreign names on air (May 11th) 在直播中发外国名字的危害(5月11日) ChatGPT raises questions about how humans acquire language (Apr 26th) ChatGPT 提出了人类如何获得语言的问题(4月26日) A new language textbook in Mexico has caused a brouhaha (Apr 12th) 墨西哥一本新的语言教科书引起了轩然大波(4月12日) Also: How the Johnson column got its name 还有: 约翰逊专栏是如何得名的 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/as-it-spreads-across-the-world-who-owns-english 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/as-it-spreads-across-the-world-who-owns-english 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 American drama 美国戏剧 August Wilson was and remains a bard of black life in America 奥古斯特 · 威尔逊过去和现在都是美国黑人生活的吟游诗人 Plays such as “Fences” and “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom” continue to find new fans on stage and screen 《围栏》、《马蕾妮的黑屁股》等剧目不断在舞台和银幕上找到新的粉丝 May 25th 2023 | NEW YORK 2023年5月25日 | 纽约 W HEN AUGUST WILSON first heard a recording of Bessie Smith singing “Nobody in Town Can Bake a Sweet Jelly Roll Like Mine”, he wrote later, “the universe stuttered and everything fell to a new place.” It was 1965, and he was a dish-washing poet of 20 with grand ambitions and a sense of injustice. 威尔逊第一次听到贝西 · 史密斯(Bessie Smith)唱“城里没有人能像我一样烤一个甜果冻卷”的录音时，他后来写道，“宇宙结巴了，一切都落到了一个新的地方。”那是1965年，他是一个20岁的洗碗诗人，有着远大的抱负和不公平的感觉。 In Smith’s proud, mournful voice, he heard a way to hold onto the past while moving forward; to rue fate yet embrace life. The blues , he thought, “is the best literature black Americans have”. Through the music he found what became his voice as a playwright. 在史密斯那傲慢而悲伤的声音中，他听到了一种在前进的同时紧紧抓住过去的方法: 既悔恨命运又拥抱生活。他认为，布鲁斯“是美国黑人拥有的最好的文学作品”。通过音乐，他找到了他作为剧作家的声音。 Wilson died of liver cancer in 2005, aged 60, but his plays have lives of their own. 威尔逊于2005年死于肝癌，享年60岁，但他的戏剧有自己的生命。 The ten parts of his American Century Cycle—which, between them, won two Pulitzers and heaps of acclaim for chronicling the black American experience in each decade of the 20th century—are still finding new audiences on stage and screen. 他的《美国世纪周期》(American Century Cycle)的十个部分仍在舞台和银幕上寻找新的观众。这十个部分共获得了两项普利策奖，并因记录了20世纪每十年美国黑人的经历而获得了大量赞誉。 This year, as usual, his work has been performed across America: “Radio Golf” in Philadelphia, “Fences” in Jackson, Mississippi, “Two Trains Running” in Miami. 今年，像往常一样，他的作品在美国各地演出: 费城的“ Radio Golf”，密西西比杰克逊的“ Fences”，迈阿密的“ Two Train Running”。 “How I Learned What I Learned”, his autobiographical one-man show, recently closed in Seattle; “Jitney” comes to London in July. Meanwhile, Netflix has announced a screen adaptation of “The Piano Lesson”, with John David Washington and Samuel L. 他的自传性个人秀“ How I Learned What I Learned”最近在西雅图结束; “ Jitney”将于7月在伦敦上映。与此同时，Netflix 公司宣布了一部改编自电影《钢琴课》的电影，由约翰 · 大卫 · 华盛顿和塞缪尔 · L。 Jackson reprising their roles from a Broadway hit (nominated for a pair of Tony awards at the ceremony on June 11th). 杰克逊重新扮演了他们在百老汇的热门角色(在6月11日的颁奖典礼上获得了两项托尼奖提名)。 These plays endure because Wilson achieved his goal of presenting black life “on its own terms…with all its richness and fullness”. Although the white world looms at the edges of these stories, it remains largely offstage. 这些戏剧之所以能够流传下来，是因为威尔逊实现了他的目标: “以自己的方式... ... 展现黑人生活的丰富多彩”。尽管白人世界在这些故事的边缘若隐若现，但它在很大程度上仍处于幕后。 Wilson was concerned with the rituals and beauty of ordinary black Americans as they forged a culture in unpropitious circumstances. 威尔逊关心的是普通美国黑人的仪式和美丽，因为他们在不利的环境下形成了一种文化。 His characters are not slaves, but nor are they entirely free—denied the jobs and loans claimed by the European families who arrived in America at the turn of the 20th century. They hustle and dream, but know the game is rigged. 他笔下的人物不是奴隶，但也不是完全自由的ーー没有20世纪初抵达美国的欧洲家庭所要求的工作和贷款。他们忙碌着，梦想着，但是他们知道游戏是被操纵的。 As a frustrated musician says in “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom”, which in 2020 became a film starring Viola Davis and Chadwick Boseman : “Is you gonna be satisfied with a bone somebody done throwed you when you see them eating the whole hog?” 正如一位沮丧的音乐家在2020年由维奥拉 · 戴维斯(Viola Davis)主演的电影《我的黑屁股》(Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom)中所说的那样: “当你看到别人扔给你的一块骨头被他们吃掉整头猪时，你会满意吗?”《我的黑屁股》(Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom)是一部查德维克·博斯曼电影 Most of these dramas unfold in the Hill District of Pittsburgh, which, when Wilson was growing up there, was a slum known as “Little Harlem”. 这些戏剧大多发生在匹兹堡的希尔区，当威尔逊在那里长大的时候，那里是一个被称为“小哈莱姆”的贫民窟。 Though he was originally named Frederick August Kittel junior after his mostly absent white German father, Wilson said he never questioned his racial identity because no one else seemed to: “All the things that were closed to Negroes at that time were closed to me.” As the only black student in his Catholic high-school class, he was greeted every morning by racist invective. 尽管威尔逊最初的名字是小弗雷德里克 · 奥古斯特 · 基特尔(Frederick August Kittel) ，因为他的德国白人父亲基本上不在他身边，但威尔逊说，他从来没有质疑过自己的种族身份，因为似乎没有其他人这么做: “当时对黑人关闭的所有东西都对我关闭了。”作为天主教高中班里唯一的黑人学生，他每天早上都受到种族主义者的谩骂。 He dropped out of formal schooling at 15 when a teacher accused him of plagiarism, on the presumption that his essay was too good for him to have written it himself. 15岁时，一位老师指责他抄袭，认为他的论文太好，不可能是他自己写的，于是他从正规学校退学。 A song for all seasons 一首适合所有季节的歌 Wilson read everything he could at his local library, then got another education listening to the banter of community elders at a nearby pool hall. 威尔逊在当地的图书馆里尽可能多地阅读，然后在附近的台球厅里听着社区老人们的玩笑，接受了另一种教育。 He knew he was a writer, and sensed that it was a rare job he could do without being under someone’s thumb: “Nobody said, ‘Hey, you can’t do that.’ So I felt free.” He spent years scribbling poems and stories before turning to plays in earnest in his 30s. 他知道自己是一个作家，并且意识到这是一个罕见的工作，他可以做，而不是在别人的拇指下: “没有人说，‘嘿，你不能这样做。所以我感到自由他花了数年时间写诗和故事，直到30多岁才开始认真地看戏。 After a couple of false starts, he found his rhythm, writing “Jitney”, “Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom” and “Joe Turner’s Come and Gone” between 1982 and 1984. He learned to sit at his desk and wait for the characters to talk to him: “I could hear the music.” 在几次失败的开始后，他找到了自己的节奏，在1982年至1984年间创作了“ Jitney”、“ Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom”和“ Joe Turner’s Come and Gone”。他学会了坐在办公桌前，等待剧中人物对他说话: “我能听到音乐。” His plays forgo outrage for sadness. During the Black Power era of the 1960s, Wilson and a friend had founded a theatre troupe in Pittsburgh that aimed to “raise consciousness” with dramas that put white characters on trial and occasionally murdered them. 他的戏剧因悲伤而放弃了愤怒。在20世纪60年代的黑人权力时代，威尔逊和一个朋友在匹兹堡创立了一个剧团，旨在通过审判白人角色、偶尔谋杀他们的戏剧来“唤醒人们的意识”。 But he came to see that he could send a stronger message by reproducing the rhythms and nuances of black life on stage, along with its slang. With his anthropological ear for the vernacular, Wilson saw his history plays as a way for black Americans to finally tell their own story. 但后来他发现，他可以通过在舞台上重现黑人生活的节奏和细微差别，以及黑人的俚语，来传递一个更强烈的信息。威尔逊从人类学的角度对白话进行了分析，他把自己的历史剧视为美国黑人最终讲述自己故事的一种方式。 “If we’re going to be pointed toward a future,” he reckoned, “we must know our past.” “如果我们要指向未来,”他认为，“我们必须了解我们的过去。” The women in his plays are outnumbered by the men, but tend to be sturdier, more sensible and more memorable. Their wisdom seems to come from resignation: relegated to lives of laundry and cooking, they know better than to dream big. 在他的戏剧中，女性的数量远远超过男性，但她们往往更坚强、更理智、更令人难忘。他们的智慧似乎来自于顺从: 他们只能过着洗衣和做饭的生活，他们知道不能有太大的梦想。 The men are the tragic figures, grasping for dignity in emasculating times. “I been wandering a long time in somebody else’s world,” says a recently freed slave in “Joe Turner’s Come and Gone”, Wilson’s favourite of his plays. 男人是悲剧性的人物，在被阉割的时代里争取尊严。“我在别人的世界里游荡了很长一段时间,”威尔逊最喜欢的戏剧《乔 · 特纳的来来去去》(Joe Turner’s Come and Gone)中一个刚刚获得自由的奴隶说。 Although he dotes on the details of black lives, his history cycle has always enjoyed a wide following. Themes such as the trials of marriage, tussles between fathers and sons, and the hunger for redemption resonate with audiences of all backgrounds. 虽然他对黑人生活的细节非常着迷，但是他的历史周期总是拥有广泛的追随者。诸如婚姻的考验、父子之间的争斗以及对救赎的渴望等主题在各种背景的观众中引起了共鸣。 By proving the commercial viability of African-American theatre, he opened the door for other black artists, such as Lynn Nottage and Suzan-Lori Parks, both Pulitzer-prizewinners. “I just want to say for the record: you are our king,” Ms Parks told Wilson in 2005. 通过证明非裔美国人戏剧的商业可行性，他为其他黑人艺术家打开了大门，如林恩 · 诺塔奇和苏珊-洛里 · 帕克斯，他们都是普利策奖得主。“我只想郑重声明: 你是我们的国王,”帕克斯在2005年告诉威尔逊。 Appetite for his work is unabated. After acquiring the playwright’s extensive archive in 2020, the University of Pittsburgh made it available this year, citing demand from scholars, historians and students. The first authorised biography of Wilson will be published this summer. 人们对他的工作兴趣不减。在2020年获得这位剧作家的大量档案之后，匹兹堡大学今年以学者、历史学家和学生的需求为由提供了这些资料。威尔逊的第一部授权传记将于今年夏天出版。 Last year an arts centre opened in his restored childhood home. Denzel Washington, who directed and starred in a film version of “Fences” (2016) and was an executive producer of “Ma Rainey”, plans to adapt more of his work. “It is a privilege and honour”, Mr Washington has said, “to be a small part in keeping him alive.” 去年，一家艺术中心在他儿时修复的家中开业。丹泽尔·华盛顿曾执导及主演电影版《围栏》(2016) ，并担任《马蕾妮》的执行制片人，他计划改编更多作品。“这是一种特权和荣誉,”华盛顿先生说，“在保持他活着的一小部分。” Wilson was grateful for his success, but not surprised. He knew that he was doing something special, and miraculously finished his grand project just a few months before he died. 威尔逊对他的成功心存感激，但并不感到惊讶。他知道自己在做一些特别的事情，并且在他去世前几个月奇迹般地完成了他的宏伟计划。 He harnessed the raw vitality of the blues for the stage because he understood it was “life’s way of talking”, as Ma Rainey explains: “You don’t sing to feel better. You sing ’cause that’s a way of understanding life.” ■ 他在舞台上利用了蓝调的原始活力，因为他明白这是“生活的说话方式”，正如马雷尼解释的那样: “你唱歌不是为了感觉更好。你唱歌，因为那是理解生活的一种方式。”￭ For more on the latest books, films, TV shows, albums and controversies, sign up to Plot Twist , our weekly subscriber-only newsletter 更多关于最新的书籍，电影，电视节目，专辑和争议，注册到情节扭曲，我们的每周订阅者唯一的时事通讯 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/august-wilson-was-and-remains-a-bard-of-black-life-in-america 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/culture/2023/05/25/august-wilson-was-and-remains-a-bard-of-black-life-in-america 下载的 Previous 上一页 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Culture 文化 Sections 部分 Graphic detail 图像细节 Economic & financial indicators 经济及金融指标 Economic data, commodities and markets 经济数据、商品和市场 Indicators :: 指标: Culture 文化 Sections 部分 Graphic detail 图像细节

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Indicators 指标 Economic data, commodities and markets 经济数据、商品和市场 May 25th 2023 | 2023年5月25日 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/economic-and-financial-indicators/2023/05/25/economic-data-commodities-and-markets 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/economic-and-financial-indicators/2023/05/25/economic-data-commodities-and-markets 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Economic & ... 经济..。 Sections 部分 Obituary 讣告 Graphic detail 图像细节 Our model suggests that global deaths remain 5% above pre-covid forecasts 我们的模型表明，全球死亡率仍然比疫情前的预测高5% The new normal :: Attributing this increase to covid would make it the fourth-leading cause of death 新常态: : 将这种增长归因于冠状病毒疾病会使其成为第四大死亡原因 Economic & ... 经济..。 Sections 部分 Obituary 讣告

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 The new normal 新常态 Our model suggests that global deaths remain 5% above pre-covid forecasts 我们的模型表明，全球死亡率仍然比疫情前的预测高5% Attributing this increase to covid would make it the fourth-leading cause of death 将这种增长归因于冠状病毒疾病会使其成为第四大死因 May 23rd 2023 | 2023年5月23日 O N MAY 5 TH the World Health Organisation declared an end to the covid-19 public-health emergency. Based on official mortality counts, this looked tardy. By April 2022, average weekly death tolls had already fallen to the level of March 2020. 5月5日，世界卫生组织宣布结束2019冠状病毒疾病公共卫生紧急状态。根据官方统计的死亡率，这看起来有些迟缓。到2022年4月，每周平均死亡人数已经下降到2020年3月的水平。 Such tallies exclude deaths caused by covid but not attributed to it, however. A better measure is excess mortality, the gap between the number of deaths from all causes and the amount pre-covid trends would imply. 然而，这些统计数字并不包括冠状病毒疾病造成的死亡，但不包括死亡原因。一个更好的衡量标准是超额死亡率，即各种原因造成的死亡人数与新冠疫情前趋势所意味的死亡人数之间的差距。 For countries that do not publish their total number of deaths, we have built a model to estimate the excess. 对于那些没有公布死亡总人数的国家，我们已经建立了一个模型来估计超额死亡人数。 This statistic also suggests that covid is killing at a slower, steadier pace than in 2020-21. Yet endemic covid remains surprisingly deadly. 这一统计数据还表明，与2020年至2021年相比，冠状病毒疾病正在以更慢、更稳定的速度消亡。然而，地方性冠状病毒疾病仍然令人惊讶地致命。 Amid high uncertainty, our central estimate for the world’s current total mortality rate exceeds projections from 2019 by 5%, or 3m lives per year. 在高度不确定性的情况下，我们对当前世界总死亡率的核心估计比2019年的预测高出5% ，即每年300万人。 In the past year 16% of estimated excess deaths were officially attributed to covid, down from 37% in 2021. This gap has grown as deaths from covid have shifted from rich countries to poor ones. 过去一年，官方估计的超额死亡中有16% 是由冠状病毒疾病引起的，低于2021年的37% 。随着冠状病毒疾病死亡人数从富裕国家转移到贫穷国家，这一差距有所扩大。 In 2020 the virus hit hardest in the rich world, where relatively old populations travel often and huddle indoors in cold weather. Such places also ramped up testing, raising the share of victims counted in official data. 2020年，这种病毒在发达国家受到的影响最为严重，那里相对较老的人口经常外出旅行，在寒冷的天气里蜷缩在室内。这些地方还加大了检测力度，提高了官方数据中受害者的比例。 But in 2021 wealthy states began to turn the tide. Because many of the vulnerable died early on, and covid survivors gained natural immunity, their populations became more resilient. 但在2021年，富裕国家开始扭转局面。由于许多弱势群体很早就死亡，冠状病毒疾病幸存者获得了天然免疫力，他们的种群变得更具弹性。 They devised and distributed effective vaccines and treatments, from steroids to new drugs like Paxlovid. 他们设计并分发了有效的疫苗和治疗方法，从类固醇到帕洛韦这样的新药。 Meanwhile, the disease worked its way around the world. Ultra-contagious variants reached rural areas and countries with tight border controls, like Vietnam. 与此同时，这种疾病在世界各地蔓延。传染性极强的变种病毒已经蔓延到了农村地区和边境管制严格的国家，比如越南。 Even China, which often locked down entire cities, realised it could not control the virus and scrapped its “zero-covid” policy in 2022. In most poor countries vaccine take-up remains low, and weak health-care systems raise death rates for those who fall ill. 即使是经常封锁整个城市的中国，也意识到自己无法控制病毒，于2022年取消了“零新冠”政策。在大多数贫穷国家，疫苗接种率仍然很低，薄弱的卫生保健系统提高了患病者的死亡率。 Because data on total mortality is scant outside the rich world, our model’s estimates have become less precise over time. Its confidence interval for the world’s current excess-death rate stretches from near zero all the way up to the estimated levels of mid-2020. However, excluding the recent surge in China, its best guess for the past year is around one of every 1m people per day. 由于在发达国家以外，关于总死亡率的数据很少，我们的模型随着时间的推移已经变得不那么精确了。它对当前全球超额死亡率的置信区间从接近于零一直延伸到2020年中期的估计水平。然而，如果不考虑中国最近的人口激增，该机构对过去一年的最佳猜测是，每天约有100万人口中就有一人在中国居住。 As a share of people aged at least 65, excess-death rates in rich countries are three times lower than elsewhere. But because such places have older populations, their overall mortality rate is similar. 富裕国家65岁以上老人的超额死亡率是其他国家的三倍。但是因为这些地方的人口老龄化，他们的总体死亡率是相似的。 Covid is not the sole cause of this change. Many countries’ health-care systems remain strained, meaning people miss out on care. Cases of other diseases that went untreated in 2020-21 are raising death rates today. 冠状病毒疾病不是导致这种变化的唯一原因。许多国家的医疗保健系统仍然紧张，这意味着人们错过了医疗保健。2020年至2021年期间没有得到治疗的其他疾病病例如今正在提高死亡率。 But if covid were indeed responsible for the full increase, it would be tied for the world’s fourth-leading cause of death. At current rates, it would kill more people in the next eight years than in the past three. ■ 但是，如果冠状病毒疾病真的要对死亡人数的全面增加负责，那么死亡人数将与全球第四大死因并列。按照目前的速度，在接下来的八年里，死于这种疾病的人数将超过过去三年。￭ Chart sources: WHO; UN; The Economist. Read our methodology here , and inspect all our code, data, and models on GitHub 图表来源: 世界卫生组织、联合国、经济学人。请阅读我们的方法，并检查我们在 GitHub 上的所有代码、数据和模型 This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/graphic-detail/2023/05/23/our-model-suggests-that-global-deaths-remain-5-above-pre-covid-forecasts 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/graphic-detail/2023/05/23/our-model-suggests-that-global-deaths-remain-5-above-pre-covid-forecasts 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Graphic detail 图像细节 Sections 部分 The Economist reads 《经济学人》读道 Obituary 讣告 Martin Amis was the lurid chronicler of a whole generation 马丁 · 艾米斯是整整一代人的骇人听闻的记录者 L’enfant terrible :: The novelist, essayist and provocateur died on May 19th, aged 73 这位小说家、散文家和煽动者于5月19日去世，享年73岁 Graphic detail 图像细节 Sections 部分 The Economist reads 《经济学人》读道

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 L’enfant terrible 孩子真可怕 Martin Amis was the lurid chronicler of a whole generation 马丁 · 艾米斯是整整一代人的骇人听闻的记录者 The novelist, essayist and provocateur died on May 19th, aged 73 这位小说家、散文家和煽动者于5月19日逝世，享年73岁 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 I T BEGAN WITH a throb. A recognition of something he had probably buried long ago in his subconscious, which could be exposed now. A calorific infusion, announcing the next novel he had to write. 开始是一阵悸动。他意识到了很久以前埋藏在他潜意识里的东西，现在可能会暴露出来。注入热量，宣布他要写的下一部小说。 The throb went into his notebook, and when he had set up the morning—a double espresso, then that first cigarette his lungs were sobbing for—he went to his desk to work. 这种悸动进入了他的笔记本，当他准备好早上的工作ーー一杯双倍浓缩咖啡，然后是他肺部抽泣的第一支烟ーー他走到办公桌前去工作。 Eleven til one were his writing hours, in biro on paper for the first draft. With computers there was no provenance, no sense of crossing-out struggle. For much of that time he was apparently doing nothing much: staring at the ceiling, trolling around, picking his nose. 十一点到一点是他的写作时间，用圆珠笔在纸上写第一稿。有了计算机，就没有了出处，没有了划线斗争的意识。在大部分时间里，他显然什么也没做: 盯着天花板，到处闲逛，挖鼻孔。 He was making himself receptive to shaping the destinies of his characters and himself. Where they would go, he wasn’t sure; once they started creating, he couldn’t stop them. 他让自己接受塑造他的角色和自己的命运。他不确定他们会去哪里; 一旦他们开始创造，他就无法阻止他们。 Where the book was going, he hoped, was on a long shelf of titles by Martin Amis, with challenging jackets and good blurbs on their backs. 他希望这本书的目的地在马丁 · 艾米斯(Martin Amis)的一长排书架上，书的背面是富有挑战性的夹克和优秀的简介。 There had been 14 novels, eight non-fiction collections, two volumes of short stories. His first novel, “The Rachel Papers” in 1973, featuring a horny young man’s pre-university adventures, had won the Somerset Maugham award, but after that he was not much garlanded. 一共有14部小说，8部非小说集，两卷短篇小说。1973年，他的第一部小说《蕾切尔的文件》(The Rachel Papers)获得了毛姆文学奖，该书讲述了一个性欲旺盛的年轻人大学前的冒险故事。 His books did not unite people, let alone judges. They were verbally prodigious, structurally wayward, profane and often vividly experimental. He might look, and speak, like a shy public schoolboy, but as a writer he smashed plates. 他的书没有把人们团结起来，更不用说法官了。他们的言语惊人，结构任性，亵渎和往往生动的实验。他可能看起来，说起话来，像一个害羞的公立学校男生，但作为一个作家，他打碎了盘子。 He came closest to winning the Booker in 1989 and 1991, but in 1989 two female judges objected to his portrayals of women. 他在1989年和1991年最接近获得布克奖，但在1989年，两名女性法官反对他对女性的描绘。 True, his main interest was masculinity of the toxic, lowlife, rabidly competitive sort: Lionel Asbo, violent criminal and Lottery-winner, a metaphor for moral decrepitude; ad director John Self in “Money”, “200lb of yob genes, booze, snout and fast food”; or magisterial Keith Talent in “London Fields”, fanatical darts-player and professional cheat. 诚然，他的主要兴趣是那种有毒的、卑鄙的、激烈竞争的男子气概: 莱昂内尔 · 阿斯博(Lionel Asbo) ，暴力罪犯和彩票中奖者，道德沦丧的隐喻; 《金钱》(Money)中的广告导演约翰 · 赛尔夫(John Self) ，“200磅的青少年基因、酒精、猪鼻子和快餐”; 或者《伦敦田野》(London Fields)中的权威基思 · 达特(Keith Talent) ，狂热的飞镖玩家和职业骗子。 Set against these, his women characters could look tame; but not Nicola Six, also of “London Fields”, with her wardrobe of alluring underwear, her joyful scheming and her unabashed enjoyment of sodomy. 面对这些，他笔下的女性角色可能看起来很温顺; 但同样来自“伦敦田野”的尼古拉 · 西克斯(Nicola Six)却不是这样，她的衣橱里满是诱人的内衣，她快乐的诡计和对鸡奸毫不掩饰的享受。 He had first seen her as a “murderee”; but as she sat on the sofa with her legs folded seethingly underneath her, she was arranging her murder herself. 他起初认为她是一个“杀人犯”; 但是当她坐在沙发上，双腿紧紧地交叠在身下时，她正在安排自己的谋杀。 Real victims were hard to write about. He produced two books on the Holocaust, two on Stalin; in “Time’s Arrow”, about a doctor in Auschwitz, time was reversed so that the doctor, in his own warped mind, restored his patients rather than destroying them. 真正的受害者很难写。他出版了两本关于大屠杀的书，两本关于斯大林的书; 在《时间之箭》(Time’s Arrow)一书中，关于奥斯维辛的一名医生，时间被逆转了，医生在他自己扭曲的思维中，恢复了他的病人，而不是摧毁他们。 In “House of Meetings” (2006) about Stalin’s gulag, he felt he had not suffered enough to tell the tale. The story itself began to beg him to set it aside, perhaps stop writing altogether; and that very thought so pained him that he managed to finish the book. 在《会议室》(2006)中关于斯大林的古拉格集中营，他觉得自己受的苦还不够多。故事本身开始恳求他把它放在一边，也许干脆停止写作; 正是这个想法使他如此痛苦，以至于他设法完成了这本书。 His father, Kingsley Amis, had been famous for comic novels, but he did not believe that talent was inherited. Their relationship was vexed. 他的父亲金斯利 · 艾米斯(Kingsley Amis)以喜剧小说闻名，但他不相信天赋是遗传的。他们的关系很纠结。 At times the Amis franchise was a burden; he suspected that his first novel had been published only out of “mercenary curiosity” to see how the son would compare. 有时，阿米斯特许经营是一个负担; 他怀疑他的第一部小说出版只是出于“唯利是图的好奇心”，看看儿子会如何比较。 He read his father’s books, but his father soon gave up on his, hurling “Money” across the room for “buggering about with the reader”. 他读过他父亲的书，但他父亲很快就放弃了他的书，把“钱”扔到房间的另一头，因为他“和读者鬼混”。 His father wrote carefully, with hearty guffaws he heard as a child; he himself went headlong into the voice of whichever grotesque had strayed across his path. 他的父亲小心翼翼地写着，他小时候听到过他发自内心的大笑; 他自己也一头扎进了那个从他面前走过的怪异的人的声音里。 Yet they were oddly united, father and son, in respect for a good English sentence—as well as jointly believing that writing was a feasible, even fine, way to make a living. 然而，父亲和儿子却奇怪地团结在一起，尊重一个好的英语句子，并且共同相信写作是一种可行的、甚至是很好的谋生方式。 His father envied him, perhaps. It was the besetting sin of writers. “The Information” detailed the worst horror, a man’s best friend becoming more celebrated than he was. 也许他父亲嫉妒他。这是作家最大的罪过。“信息”详细描述了最可怕的事情，一个人最好的朋友变得比他更有名。 His own inner egomaniac dreaded any blazing talent coming up on his flank, even though he moved in the most sparkling and influential literary set of the 1980s and 1990s—with Ian McEwan, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie and “Hitch”, Christopher Hitchens, his closest friend, who still lived for Trotskyist struggle. 他自己内心的自大狂害怕任何耀眼的才华出现在他的身边，尽管他进入了上世纪80年代和90年代最耀眼、最有影响力的文学圈子——与伊恩•麦克尤恩(Ian McEwan)、朱利安•巴恩斯(Julian Barnes)、萨尔曼•拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)以及他最亲密的朋友、仍为托洛茨基主义奋斗的克里斯托弗·希钦斯《希区》(Hitch)合作。 All were trying to write their own version of Trollope’s “The Way we Live Now”, and he had to believe he was the best at it. 所有人都在尝试写出自己版本的特罗洛普的《我们现在的生活方式》 ，而他必须相信自己是这方面的佼佼者。 The very best, he admitted, were in America, his “Moronic Inferno”: loudmouth Mailer, terrifying Nabokov, “sacramental” Saul Bellow with his stevedore’s shoulders. These men dared to write vast superpower novels about the whole of society. 他承认，最好的是在美国，他的“低能地狱”: 大嘴巴的梅勒，可怕的纳博科夫，“神圣的”索尔 · 贝娄与他的装卸工的肩膀。这些人敢于写关于整个社会的超级大国小说。 His own smaller efforts were symptomatic of Britain’s decline: its aura of filthy pub carpets, its morbidly obese children, phone booths “slobberingly coated with thick red paint”, London “like the insides of an old plug”. 他自己较小的努力反映了英国的衰落: 肮脏的酒吧地毯的光环，病态肥胖的儿童，“涂着厚厚的红色油漆的流着口水的电话亭”，伦敦“就像一个旧插头的内部”。 Purpose had been lost along with the empire, and under Thatcher, that old witch, civility and civilisation had fallen apart. Nothing but weak left-liberalism remained to confront the ruins; that, and the scathing onslaught of his prose. 在撒切尔的统治下，帝国失去了目标，老巫婆、文明和文明也分崩离析。除了软弱的左翼自由主义，没有其他东西可以对抗这片废墟，以及他的散文所带来的猛烈攻击。 Yet he did not feel appreciated. In the mid-1990s he was crucified by the press for having asked his publisher, Cape, for an advance of £500,000 for “The Information”. 然而，他并没有感到被赏识。上世纪90年代中期，他因为向出版商 Cape 预支50万美元购买《信息》(The Information)而被媒体钉死在十字架上。 (Cape refused; HarperCollins obliged.) He needed the money for his divorce and to get his awful teeth fixed, the flaw in his good looks; not cosmetic, like a boob job, but essential. In 1995 he left not only Cape but his agent and his wife. (卡普拒绝了，哈珀柯林斯公司答应了。)他需要钱离婚，还需要修补他那糟糕的牙齿，修补他美貌中的瑕疵; 不是像隆胸那样的化妆品，而是必需品。1995年，他不仅离开了开普敦，还离开了他的经纪人和妻子。 Eventually he abandoned England, settling for three years in Uruguay with Isabel Fonseca, his second wife, and then in Florida. In Uruguay he found the quiet life he wanted almost always. 最终，他放弃了英格兰，与第二任妻子伊莎贝尔 · 丰塞卡(Isabel Fonseca)在乌拉圭定居了三年，然后在佛罗里达定居。在乌拉圭，他几乎总能找到自己想要的宁静生活。 It made a striking contrast to the jet-setting party animal of his past: cigarette in hand, Hitch at shoulder, swagger in his look. 这与他过去那种时髦的派对动物形成了鲜明的对比: 手里拿着香烟，肩膀上搭着顺风车，神气十足。 Increasingly, he fretted about time. In “Time’s Arrow” Dr Unverdorben looked steadily towards the past, away from death. But everyone, with gravid arrest, would find it waiting. 他越来越担心时间。在《时间之箭》中，昂弗多本博士坚定地回望过去，远离死亡。但是每个孕妇都会发现它在等待。 It loomed as he slowly added to his shelf of books, the only particle of him that might stand the test of time. He had felt, not far into the 21st century, an outsurge of essence, an anti-afflatus, that signalled the dying of his creative powers. 当他慢慢地把书放到书架上时，这种感觉隐隐约约地出现了，这是他唯一可以经得起时间考验的一部分。在进入21世纪后不久，他就感觉到一种本质的涌现，一种反感，这预示着他的创造力的消亡。 The exit was coming closer, time hurtling like a runaway train. The Zeitgeist had moved on, fast, from the one he knew: the one in which he had strolled leonine towards that throb only he felt, the next novel that could illuminate and eviscerate the age. ■ 出口越来越近，时间像失控的火车一样疾驰。时代精神迅速地从他所熟悉的那部小说中走了出来: 在那部小说中，他漫步着狮子座，走向只有他能感受到的悸动，下一部小说可以照亮和挖掘这个时代。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/obituary/2023/05/24/martin-amis-was-the-lurid-chronicler-of-a-whole-generation 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/obituary/2023/05/24/martin-amis-was-the-lurid-chronicler-of-a-whole-generation 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个

Obituary 讣告 Sections 部分 The Economist reads 《经济学人》读道 The spy who read me: authors under surveillance ❗ 🔄 Spies and scribes :: The books that show espionage agents are not the most subtle literary critics 间谍与抄写员: 表现间谍特工的书不是最微妙的文学批评家 Obituary 讣告 Sections 部分

Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个 Spies and scribes 间谍和抄写员 The spy who read me: authors under surveillance 读过我的间谍: 被监视的作家 The books that show espionage agents are not the most subtle literary critics 展示间谍活动的书籍并不是最微妙的文学批评家 May 24th 2023 | 2023年5月24日 E RNEST HEMINGWAY thought his phone was tapped. Doris Lessing reckoned that British spies were following her every move. Claude McKay suspected that the FBI was monitoring his travel in Europe. Their instincts were right. 欧内斯特·海明威认为他的电话被监听了。多丽丝 · 莱辛认为英国间谍在跟踪她的一举一动。克劳德 · 麦凯怀疑联邦调查局在监视他在欧洲的行踪。他们的直觉是对的。 During the 20th century intelligence agencies in Britain and America spent countless hours investigating “dangerous” authors. This was in part an alternative to censoring or banning the work of troublesome writers, which dictatorships do more readily than democracies. The literary snooping eased up, though did not cease, after America won the cold war. Writing by novelists and essayists came to seem less dangerous and files on them became thinner. 在20世纪，英国和美国的情报机构花费了无数的时间来调查“危险的”作家。这在一定程度上可以替代审查或禁止麻烦作家的作品，独裁政权比民主政体更容易做到这一点。美国赢得冷战后，文学界的窥探活动有所缓和，但并未停止。小说家和散文家的写作似乎变得不那么危险了，有关他们的文件也变得更薄了。 Most snoops are not very good readers. They sometimes get basic facts wrong. 大多数窥探者都不是很好的读者，他们有时会把基本事实搞错。 In one file MI5, Britain’s domestic-intelligence agency, adds an extra “e” to “Orwell” (spelling it “Orewell”) and mistitles his book “Down and Out in Paris and London” as “A Down and Out in London and Paris”. 在一份文件中，英国国内情报机构军情五处(MI5)在“ Orwell”(拼写为“ Orewell”)后面多加了一个“ e”，并将他的书《巴黎和伦敦的穷困潦倒》(Down and Out In Paris and London)误称为《伦敦和巴黎的穷困潦倒》(A Down and Out In London and Paris)。 The FBI’s assessment of McKay, a important figure in the Harlem renaissance, is true but unenlightening: he “is apparently a poet, or at least he has written considerable verse”. One FBI agent describes James Baldwin, an American writer, as “white… 6’, neat”. 美国联邦调查局(FBI)对哈莱姆文艺复兴重要人物麦凯的评估是真实的，但没有启发性: 他“显然是一位诗人，或者至少他写过相当多的诗歌”。一位联邦调查局探员形容美国作家詹姆斯 · 鲍德温为“白人... ... 6英尺高，整洁”。 (He was black and five foot six.) Some investigations last a few dull days. Others take decades. Here are six of the best books by and about authors under surveillance. (他是黑人，身高5英尺6英寸。)有些调查持续了几天无聊的日子。有些则需要几十年。以下是六本最好的书籍，它们都是由受监视的作家所著，也是关于这些作家的。 They show how the security state watched, read and sometimes influenced writers whose approaches to literature ranged from modernist to postmodernist and whose ideologies stretched from libertarianism to communism. 它们展示了安全国家是如何观察、阅读并有时影响作家的，这些作家对文学的态度从现代主义到后现代主义，他们的意识形态从自由意志主义延伸到共产主义。 Writers Under Surveillance: The FBI Files. By JPat Brown, B. C. D. Lipton and Michael Morisy. MIT Press; 393 pages; $24.95 and £20 监视下的作家: 联邦调查局档案。作者: JPat Brown，B.C.D。 Lipton，Michael Morisy。麻省理工出版社; 393页; 24.95美元和20美元 J. Edgar Hoover, director of the FBI from 1924 to 1972, assumed that left-leaning writers were radicals and communists. His agents snooped on American authors from Allen Ginsberg to Susan Sontag. 1924年至1972年担任美国联邦调查局(FBI)局长的 J •埃德加•胡佛(J. Edgar Hoover)认为，左倾作家是激进分子和共产主义者。他的代理人窥探从艾伦 · 金斯伯格到苏珊 · 桑塔格的美国作家。 They listened in on phone calls, followed writers to meetings and spoke to their associates. Sometimes agents read and annotated their books. They targeted authors who were socialists, civil-rights activists or critical of the government, or who had friends with those attributes. 他们监听电话，跟踪作家参加会议，并与他们的同事交谈。有时代理人阅读和注释他们的书籍。他们的目标是那些社会主义者、民权活动家或者批评政府的作家，或者那些拥有这些特质的朋友。 This volume explores the intelligence files of 16 prominent writers, acquired with freedom-of-information requests. The documents are reproduced in facsimile—typewritten, stamped and scribbled on. JPat Brown and his co-editors provide context and close readings of the files. 本卷探讨了16个著名作家的情报文件，获得的信息自由的要求。这些文件以传真方式复制ーー打字、盖章和涂写。JPat Brown 和他的合作编辑提供了这些文件的上下文和近距离阅读。 Readers learn that Ray Bradbury, who wrote “Fahrenheit 451”, a novel that condemns censorship, had no idea why the FBI was watching him. Hemingway, on the other hand, knew that he was being followed and once drunkenly called the FBI Nazis and cowards. 读者了解到，雷布拉德伯里，谁写了“华氏451度”，一部谴责审查制度的小说，不知道为什么联邦调查局监视他。另一方面，海明威知道自己被跟踪了，他曾醉醺醺地骂 FBI 是纳粹和懦夫。 “Writers under Surveillance” shows how state surveillance worked in mid-20th-century America. It is vital, the editors argue, that the public learn about the agency’s literary espionage, which probably continues today. “监控下的作家”展示了20世纪中期美国国家监控的工作原理。编辑们认为，让公众了解该机构的文学间谍活动至关重要，这种活动可能会持续到今天。 For Whom the Bell Tolls. By Ernest Hemingway. Simon & Schuster; 576 pages; $20. Arrow; £8.99 战地钟声，欧内斯特·海明威西蒙与舒斯特，576页，售价20美元，Arrow 出版社，8.99美元 For 40 years FBI agents followed and read Hemingway. 40年来，联邦调查局探员一直跟踪研究海明威。 A newspaper clipping in his FBI file suggests that “For Whom the Bell Tolls”, his novel about the Spanish Civil War, published in 1940, was “so miserable, so slanderous, that it met with excellent reception among the Fascists, the Trotskyists and the Munichists [appeasers of Hitler]”. 他在美国联邦调查局(FBI)档案中的一份剪报显示，他在1940年出版的关于西班牙内战的小说《战地钟声》“如此悲惨，如此诽谤，以至于在法西斯主义者、托洛茨基主义者和慕尼黑主义者(希特勒的绥靖者)中受到了极好的接受”。 The FBI saw the novel as sympathetic to the Republicans who were fighting Spanish fascism, and therefore to Stalinism. Its themes—such as treason and extramarital sex—unsettled the conservative Hoover. But he eventually dismissed the charge that Hemingway was a communist. 联邦调查局认为这部小说同情那些反抗西班牙法西斯主义的共和党人，因此也同情斯大林主义。它的主题ーー例如叛国和婚外性行为ーー令保守派的胡佛感到不安。但他最终驳斥了关于海明威是共产主义者的指控。 In a short note Hoover wrote, “Knowing Hemingway as I did, I doubt he had any communist leanings.” Some scholars have interpreted his dogged interest in Hemingway as revenge for something the novelist said or did while he was working in the service of the American government in pre-revolutionary Cuba (ironically, just after “For Whom the Bell Tolls” was published). 胡佛在一份简短的笔记中写道: “像我这样了解海明威的人，我怀疑他是否有任何共产主义倾向。”一些学者将他对海明威的执着兴趣解读为对这位小说家在古巴为美国政府服务期间所说所做的报复(具有讽刺意味的是，就在《战地钟声》出版后不久)。 F.B. Eyes: How J. Edgar Hoover’s Ghostreaders Framed African American Literature. By William J. Maxwell. Princeton University Press; 384 pages; $30.95 and £25 F.B.Eyes: How J. Edgar Hoover’s Ghostreader Framing African American Cultural F.B.Eyes: 胡佛的影子读者如何构建非裔美国文学。作者: 威廉 · J · 麦克斯韦。普林斯顿大学出版社; 384页; 30.95美元和25美元 Almost half of the writers in “The Norton Anthology of African American Literature” were anthologised in FBI files. “F.B. Eyes” describes the bureau as “perhaps the most dedicated and influential forgotten critic of African American literature”. 《诺顿非裔美国人文学选集》中几乎一半的作者都被收录在 FBI 的档案中。“ F.B.Eyes”将该局描述为“也许是最有献身精神和影响力的被遗忘的非裔美国文学评论家”。 In some 14,000 pages of files its agents delved into the socialist politics of some black authors and dwelled on the supposed dangers of African-American activism. 在大约14,000页的文件中，它的代理人深入研究了一些黑人作家的社会主义政治，并详细阐述了所谓的非裔美国人行动主义的危险。 The FBI sent an agent to see an early staging of Lorraine Hansberry’s “A Raisin in the Sun”, about a poor black family in Chicago. 美国联邦调查局(FBI)派了一名特工去看洛兰·汉斯贝里《阳光下的葡萄干》(a Raisin in The Sun)的早期版本，该剧讲述的是芝加哥一个贫穷的黑人家庭的故事。 He filed a surprisingly sensitive review, offering a droll commentary on its characters and confirming that it contained “no comments of any nature about Communism”. The book also records black authors’ creative responses to their spy-readers. 他提交了一份出人意料的敏感评论，对影片人物进行了滑稽的评论，并确认其中“没有任何关于共产主义本质的评论”。这本书还记录了黑人作家对他们的间谍读者的创造性反应。 William Maxwell contends that McKay’s restless sentences, Baldwin’s exasperated tone and Richard Wright’s sardonic analogies were in part reactions to the agents who not only read their books but followed them to their homes and stopped them at state borders. 威廉 · 马克斯韦尔(William Maxwell)认为，麦凯不安分的句子、鲍德温愤怒的语气以及理查德 · 赖特(Richard Wright)讽刺性的类比，在一定程度上是对特工的反应。这些特工不仅读他们的书，还跟踪他们到他们的家里，并在州边境阻止他们。 Both the agency and its targets were energised by their fear of and respect for one another. 这个机构和它的目标都因为他们对彼此的恐惧和尊重而充满活力。 The Devil Finds Work. By James Baldwin. Vintage; 127 pages; $14 《魔鬼找到工作》 ，詹姆斯 · 鲍德温著，复古出版社，127页，14美元 Hoover is “history’s most highly paid (and most utterly useless) voyeur”, quips Baldwin in this book-length essay from 1976, which surveys racism in American movies. The author’s own surveillance record seems to bear him out. 胡佛是“历史上收入最高(也是最没用的)偷窥狂”，鲍德温在这篇1976年的长篇文章中打趣道。这篇文章调查了美国电影中的种族主义。作者自己的监视记录似乎证实了他的话。 FBI snoops trailed and photographed him from 1960 to 1973. They labelled him “a pervert” (because he was gay) and “a communist” (because he signed a petition sponsored by the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, a leftist group). 联邦调查局的探子从1960年到1973年跟踪并拍摄了他的照片。他们给他贴上了“变态”(因为他是同性恋)和“共产主义者”(因为他签署了一份由左翼组织古巴公平竞争委员会发起的请愿书)的标签。 The files they compiled are sloppily written, full of spelling mistakes, terrible grammar and repetition. Hoover added Baldwin to his “Security Index”, a list of citizens who were a threat to the state and who, in a state of emergency, would be the first to be arrested. 他们编译的文件写得很草率，充满了拼写错误，糟糕的语法和重复。胡佛把鲍德温加入了他的“安全指数”，这是一份对国家构成威胁的公民名单，在紧急状态下，他们将是第一批被逮捕的公民。 The surveillance took a toll on Baldwin. He wrote less than he normally did during those years, all the while promising to blast Hoover “to the wall” in an exposé, which he never finished. 监视对鲍德温造成了伤害。在那些年里，他写得比平时少，同时还承诺要在一篇揭露胡佛的文章中把他“轰到墙上”，而这篇文章他一直没有写完。 His witty musings on Hoover in this collection hint at the acerbic insight such a book might have provided. 他在这本集子中对胡佛的机智思考暗示了这本书可能提供的尖刻洞察力。 British Writers and MI5 Surveillance, 1930-1960. By James Smith. Cambridge University Press; 228 pages; $100 and £55 《英国作家和军情五处监视，1930-1960》 ，詹姆斯 · 史密斯著，剑桥大学出版社，228页，100美元和55美元 Britain’s domestic intelligence agencies kept secret records on many left-wing writers after the first world war. James Smith has written a comprehensive account of the clandestine surveillance of British literary culture, which encompassed artists from W. H. 第一次世界大战后，英国国内情报机构对许多左翼作家保存了秘密记录。詹姆斯史密斯写了一个全面的帐户秘密监视英国文学文化，其中包括艺术家从 W。 Auden, a poet, to Joan Littlewood, a theatre director. Mr Smith describes how MI5 intercepted their letters, followed their families and recruited their close friends to be informants. 诗人奥登写给戏剧导演琼 · 利特尔伍德。史密斯先生描述了军情五处如何截获他们的信件，如何跟踪他们的家人，如何招募他们的密友做线人。 Especially fascinating is the relationship between the agency and Arthur Koestler, a Hungarian-born author who became disillusioned with communism and did a spot of clandestine work himself for the British government during the cold war. 特别引人入胜的是情报局和 Arthur Koestler 之间的关系。 Arthur Koestler 是一位匈牙利出生的作家，他对共产主义的幻想破灭了，在冷战期间为英国政府做了一些秘密工作。 His dealings with MI5 involved mendacity and blackmail by both sides. Mr Smith sometimes plods like the agents he writes about. His advice to MI5’s reluctant literary critics, though, is sound: to know a writer, don’t listen to their phone calls, read their books. 他与军情五处的交易涉及双方的谎言和勒索。史密斯先生有时象他所描写的那些代理人一样拖拖拉拉。不过，他对军情五处不情愿的文学评论家的建议是合理的: 了解一个作家，不要听他们的电话，读他们的书。 Although his book sometimes lapses into unfounded speculation and tiresome abstraction, it is well worth reading. 尽管他的书有时会陷入毫无根据的猜测和令人厌烦的抽象，但它还是很值得一读。 Nineteen Eighty-Four. By George Orwell. Berkley; 304 pages; $17.00. Penguin; £16.99 一九八四: 乔治•奥威尔(George Orwell)著，伯克利出版社(Berkley)出版，304页，17.00美元，企鹅出版社(Penguin)出版，16.99美元 MI5 and Britain’s India Office were not the Thought Police. The British prime minister was hardly Big Brother. Yet the surveillance from 1936 to 1951 of George Orwell, who called himself a democratic socialist, helped inspire those terrifying inventions. 军情五处和英国驻印度办事处不是思想警察。这位英国首相算不上什么老大哥。然而，自称民主社会主义者的乔治•奥威尔(George Orwell)在1936年至1951年间受到的监视，帮助激发了那些可怕的发明。 It was sporadic and cursory, gathering less than 40 pages of material all told. The India Office took an interest in him when he was offered a job as an assistant editor of The Pioneer , an Anglo-Indian newspaper in Lucknow. Despite their mistrust, agents didn’t uncover any evidence that Orwell was a communist. (Indeed, he was a fervent foe of Stalinism.) The India Office quickly lost interest when Orwell withdrew from the job on medical grounds. 这是零星的和粗略的，收集不到40页的材料总结。当勒克瑙的英印报纸《先锋报》(The Pioneer)向他提供了一份助理编辑的工作时，印度办事处对他产生了兴趣。尽管不信任，特工们没有发现任何证据证明奥威尔是共产主义者。(事实上，他是斯大林主义的狂热反对者。)奥威尔因健康原因退出印度办事处后，印度办事处很快就失去了兴趣。 His MI5 file—glib, repetitive and often scribbled with red ink—refers to his “bohemian fashion” and “many Indian friends”. 他在英国军情五处(MI5)的档案中提到他的“波西米亚风格”和“许多印度朋友”。 It is evidence to support Orwell’s dim view of the police: “the policeman who arrests the ‘Red’ does not understand the theories the ‘Red’ is preaching”, he wrote in an essay published in 1941. The Thought Police of “Nineteen Eighty-Four” are less hapless and far more sinister. 这是支持奥威尔对警察的悲观看法的证据: “逮捕‘红色’的警察不理解‘红色’所宣扬的理论”，他在1941年发表的一篇文章中写道。“一九八四”的思想警察没有那么倒霉，而是更加险恶。 Yet they owe something to the snoops who followed him around. 但是他们欠那些跟踪他的窥探者一些东西。 Also try 也试试 Our recent coverage of espionage includes an article about how the war in Ukraine has battered the reputation of Russian spies. China’s spies know how to hack and harrass dissidents but in other areas they have a lot to learn . Here we explain why companies need to take corporate espionage more seriously. As this column from 2016 points out, scribes sometimes become spies, which isn’t surprising because they have much in common. Read our recommendations of books that explain how espionage and intelligence work. ■ 我们最近对间谍活动的报道包括一篇关于乌克兰战争如何损害俄罗斯间谍名誉的文章。中国的间谍知道如何黑客和骚扰持不同政见者，但在其他领域，他们还有很多东西要学。这里我们将解释为什么公司需要更严肃地对待商业间谍活动。正如这篇2016年的专栏文章所指出的，抄写员有时候会成为间谍，这并不奇怪，因为他们有很多共同点。阅读我们推荐的解释间谍活动和情报工作的书籍。￭ This article was downloaded by calibre from https://www.economist.com/the-economist-reads/2023/05/24/the-spy-who-read-me-authors-under-surveillance 本文是通过 Calibre 从 https://www.economist.com/the-economist-reads/2023/05/24/the-spy-who-read-me-authors-under-surveillance 下载的 Articles 文章 Sections 部分 Next 下一个